ESV
English Standard Version
Genesis 1:1 In the beginning, God created the heavens and the earth.
Genesis 1:2 The earth was without form and void, and darkness was over the face of the deep. And the Spirit of God was hovering over the face of the waters.
Genesis 1:3 And God said, “Let there be light,” and there was light.
Genesis 1:4 And God saw that the light was good. And God separated the light from the darkness.
Genesis 1:5 God called the light Day, and the darkness he called Night. And there was evening and there was morning, the first day.
Genesis 1:6 And God said,  in the midst of the waters, and let it separate the waters from the waters.”
Genesis 1:7 And God made above the expanse. And it was so.
Genesis 1:8 And God called the expanse Heaven.  And there was evening and there was morning, the second day.
Genesis 1:9 And God said, “Let the waters under the heavens be gathered together into one place, and let the dry land appear.” And it was so.
Genesis 1:10 God called the dry land Earth,  and the waters that were gathered together he called Seas. And God saw that it was good.
Genesis 1:11 And God said,  yielding seed, and fruit trees bearing fruit in which is their seed, each according to its kind, on the earth.” And it was so.
Genesis 1:12 The earth brought forth vegetation, plants yielding seed according to their own kinds, and trees bearing fruit in which is their seed, each according to its kind. And God saw that it was good.
Genesis 1:13 And there was evening and there was morning, the third day.
Genesis 1:14 And God said, “Let there be lights in the expanse of the heavens to separate the day from the night. And let them be for  and for days and years,
Genesis 1:15 and let them be lights in the expanse of the heavens to give light upon the earth.” And it was so.
Genesis 1:16 And God made the two great lights — the greater light to rule the day and the lesser light to rule the night — and the stars.
Genesis 1:17 And God set them in the expanse of the heavens to give light on the earth,
Genesis 1:18 to rule over the day and over the night, and to separate the light from the darkness. And God saw that it was good.
Genesis 1:19 And there was evening and there was morning, the fourth day.
Genesis 1:20 And God said, “Let the waters swarm with swarms of living creatures, and let birds  fly above the earth across the expanse of the heavens.”
Genesis 1:21 So God created the great sea creatures and every living creature that moves, with which the waters swarm, according to their kinds, and every winged bird according to its kind. And God saw that it was good.
Genesis 1:22 And God blessed them, saying, “Be fruitful and multiply and fill the waters in the seas, and let birds multiply on the earth.”
Genesis 1:23 And there was evening and there was morning, the fifth day.
Genesis 1:24 And God said, “Let the earth bring forth living creatures according to their kinds — livestock and creeping things and beasts of the earth according to their kinds.” And it was so.
Genesis 1:25 And God made the beasts of the earth according to their kinds and the livestock according to their kinds, and everything that creeps on the ground according to its kind. And God saw that it was good.
Genesis 1:26 Then God said, let them have dominion over the fish of the sea and over the birds of the heavens and over the livestock and over all the earth and over every creeping thing that creeps on the earth.”
Genesis 1:27 So God created man in his own image, in the image of God he created him; male and female he created them.
Genesis 1:28 And God blessed them. And God said to them, “Be fruitful and multiply and fill the earth and subdue it, and have dominion over the fish of the sea and over the birds of the heavens and over every living thing that moves on the earth.”
Genesis 1:29 And God said, “Behold, I have given you every plant yielding seed that is on the face of all the earth, and every tree with seed in its fruit. You shall have them for food.
Genesis 1:30 And to every beast of the earth and to every bird of the heavens and to everything that creeps on the earth, everything that has the breath of life, I have given every green plant for food.” And it was so.
Genesis 1:31  And God saw everything that he had made, and behold, it was very good. And there was evening and there was morning, the sixth day.
Genesis 2:1 Thus the heavens and the earth were finished, and all the host of them.
Genesis 2:2 And on the seventh day God finished his work that he had done, and he rested on the seventh day from all his work that he had done.
Genesis 2:3 So God blessed the seventh day and made it holy, because on it God rested from all his work that he had done in creation.
Genesis 2:4  These are the generations of the heavens and the earth when they were created, in the day that the LORD God made the earth and the heavens.
Genesis 2:5 When no to work the ground,
Genesis 2:6 and a mist  was going up from the land and was watering the whole face of the ground —
Genesis 2:7 then the LORD God formed the man of the man became a living creature.
Genesis 2:8 And the LORD God planted a garden in Eden, in the east, and there he put the man whom he had formed.
Genesis 2:9 And out of the ground the LORD God made to spring up every tree that is pleasant to the sight and good for food. and the tree of the knowledge of good and evil.
Genesis 2:10 A river flowed out of Eden to water the garden, and there it divided and became four rivers.
Genesis 2:11 The name of the first is the Pishon. It is the one that flowed around the whole land of Havilah, where there is gold.
Genesis 2:12 And the gold of that land is good; bdellium and onyx stone are there.
Genesis 2:13 The name of the second river is the Gihon. It is the one that flowed around the whole land of Cush.
Genesis 2:14 And the name of the third river is the Tigris, which flows east of Assyria. And the fourth river is the Euphrates.
Genesis 2:15 The LORD God took the man and put him in the garden of Eden to work it and keep it.
Genesis 2:16 And the LORD God commanded the man, saying, “You may surely eat of every tree of the garden,
Genesis 2:17 but of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil shall surely die.”
Genesis 2:18 Then the LORD God said, “It is not good that the man should be alone;  him.”
Genesis 2:19  brought them to the man to see what he would call them. And whatever the man called every living creature, that was its name.
Genesis 2:20 The man gave names to all livestock and to the birds of the heavens and to every beast of the field. But for Adam  there was not found a helper fit for him.
Genesis 2:21 So the LORD God caused a deep sleep to fall upon the man, and while he slept took one of his ribs and closed up its place with flesh.
Genesis 2:22 And the rib that the LORD God had taken from the man he made  into a woman and brought her to the man.
Genesis 2:23 Then the man said, “This at last is
Genesis 2:24  Therefore a man shall leave his father and his mother and hold fast to his wife, and they shall become one flesh.
Genesis 2:25 And the man and his wife were both naked and were not ashamed.
Genesis 3:1 Now  shall not eat of any tree in the garden’?”
Genesis 3:2 And the woman said to the serpent, “We may eat of the fruit of the trees in the garden,
Genesis 3:3 but God said, ‘You shall not eat of the fruit of the tree that is in the midst of the garden, neither shall you touch it, lest you die.’”
Genesis 3:4  But the serpent said to the woman, “You will not surely die.
Genesis 3:5 For God knows that when you eat of it your eyes will be opened, and you will be like God, knowing good and evil.”
Genesis 3:6 So when the woman saw that the tree was good for food, and that it was a delight to the eyes, and that the tree was to be desired to make one wise, and he ate.
Genesis 3:7  and they knew that they were naked. And they sewed fig leaves together and made themselves loincloths.
Genesis 3:8 And they heard the sound of the LORD God walking in the garden in the cool hid themselves from the presence of the LORD God among the trees of the garden.
Genesis 3:9 But the LORD God called to the man and said to him, “Where are you?”
Genesis 3:10 And he said, “I heard the sound of you in the garden, and I was afraid, because I was naked, and I hid myself.”
Genesis 3:11 He said, “Who told you that you were naked? Have you eaten of the tree of which I commanded you not to eat?”
Genesis 3:12 The man said, “The woman whom you gave to be with me, she gave me fruit of the tree, and I ate.”
Genesis 3:13 Then the LORD God said to the woman, “What is this that you have done?” The woman said, “The serpent deceived me, and I ate.”
Genesis 3:14 The LORD God said to the serpent, “Because you have done this, cursed are you above all livestock and above all beasts of the field; on your belly you shall go, and dust you shall eat all the days of your life.
Genesis 3:15 I will put enmity between you and the woman, and between your offspringhe shall bruise your head, and you shall bruise his heel.”
Genesis 3:16 To the woman he said, “I will surely multiply your pain in childbearing;  rule over you.”
Genesis 3:17 And to Adam he said, “Because you have listened to the voice of your wife and have eaten of the tree in pain you shall eat of it all the days of your life;
Genesis 3:18 thorns and thistles it shall bring forth for you; and you shall eat the plants of the field.
Genesis 3:19 By the sweat of your face you shall eat bread, till you return to the ground, for out of it you were taken;  to dust you shall return.”
Genesis 3:20 The man called his wife's name Eve, because she was the mother of all living.
Genesis 3:21 And the LORD God made for Adam and for his wife garments of skins and clothed them.
Genesis 3:22 Then the LORD God said, and take also of the tree of life and eat, and live forever — ”
Genesis 3:23 therefore the LORD God sent him out from the garden of Eden to work the ground from which he was taken.
Genesis 3:24 He drove out the man, and at the east of the garden of Eden he placed the cherubim and a flaming sword that turned every way to guard the way to the tree of life.
Genesis 4:1 Now Adam knew Eve his wife, and she conceived and bore Cain, saying, “I have gotten  a man with the help of the LORD.”
Genesis 4:2 And again, she bore his brother Abel. Now Abel was a keeper of sheep, and Cain a worker of the ground.
Genesis 4:3 In the course of time Cain brought to the LORD an offering of the fruit of the ground,
Genesis 4:4 and Abel also brought of had regard for Abel and his offering,
Genesis 4:5 but for Cain and his offering he had no regard. So Cain was very angry, and his face fell.
Genesis 4:6 The LORD said to Cain, “Why are you angry, and why has your face fallen?
Genesis 4:7   you, but you must rule over it.”
Genesis 4:8 Cain spoke to Abel his brother. killed him.
Genesis 4:9 Then the LORD said to Cain, “Where is Abel your brother?” He said, “I do not know; am I my brother's keeper?”
Genesis 4:10 And the LORD said, “What have you done? The voice of your brother's blood is crying to me from the ground.
Genesis 4:11 And now you are cursed from the ground, which has opened its mouth to receive your brother's blood from your hand.
Genesis 4:12 When you work the ground, it shall no longer yield to you its strength. You shall be a fugitive and a wanderer on the earth.”
Genesis 4:13 Cain said to the LORD, “My
Genesis 4:14 Behold, and whoever finds me will kill me.”
Genesis 4:15 Then the LORD said to him, “Not so! If anyone kills Cain, vengeance shall be taken on him put a mark on Cain, lest any who found him should attack him.
Genesis 4:16 Then Cain went away from the presence of the LORD and settled in the land of Nod,  east of Eden.
Genesis 4:17 Cain knew his wife, and she conceived and bore Enoch. When he built a city, he called the name of the city after the name of his son, Enoch.
Genesis 4:18 To Enoch was born Irad, and Irad fathered Mehujael, and Mehujael fathered Methushael, and Methushael fathered Lamech.
Genesis 4:19 And Lamech took two wives. The name of the one was Adah, and the name of the other Zillah.
Genesis 4:20 Adah bore Jabal; he was the father of those who dwell in tents and have livestock.
Genesis 4:21 His brother's name was Jubal; he was the father of all those who play the lyre and pipe.
Genesis 4:22 Zillah also bore Tubal-cain; he was the forger of all instruments of bronze and iron. The sister of Tubal-cain was Naamah.
Genesis 4:23 Lamech said to his wives: “Adah and Zillah, hear my voice; you wives of Lamech, listen to what I say: I have killed a man for wounding me, a young man for striking me.
Genesis 4:24  If Cain's revenge is sevenfold, then Lamech's is seventy-sevenfold.”
Genesis 4:25 And Adam knew his wife again, and she bore a son and called his name Seth, for she said, “God has appointed  for me another offspring instead of Abel, for Cain killed him.”
Genesis 4:26 To to call upon the name of the LORD.
Genesis 5:1 This is the book of the generations of Adam. When God created man, he made him in the likeness of God.
Genesis 5:2 Male and female he created them, and he blessed them and named them Man  when they were created.
Genesis 5:3 When Adam had lived 130 years, he fathered a son in his own likeness, after his image, and named him Seth.
Genesis 5:4  The days of Adam after he fathered Seth were 800 years; and he had other sons and daughters.
Genesis 5:5 Thus all the days that Adam lived were 930 years, and he died.
Genesis 5:6 When Seth had lived 105 years, he fathered Enosh.
Genesis 5:7 Seth lived after he fathered Enosh 807 years and had other sons and daughters.
Genesis 5:8 Thus all the days of Seth were 912 years, and he died.
Genesis 5:9 When Enosh had lived 90 years, he fathered Kenan.
Genesis 5:10 Enosh lived after he fathered Kenan 815 years and had other sons and daughters.
Genesis 5:11 Thus all the days of Enosh were 905 years, and he died.
Genesis 5:12 When Kenan had lived 70 years, he fathered Mahalalel.
Genesis 5:13 Kenan lived after he fathered Mahalalel 840 years and had other sons and daughters.
Genesis 5:14 Thus all the days of Kenan were 910 years, and he died.
Genesis 5:15 When Mahalalel had lived 65 years, he fathered Jared.
Genesis 5:16 Mahalalel lived after he fathered Jared 830 years and had other sons and daughters.
Genesis 5:17 Thus all the days of Mahalalel were 895 years, and he died.
Genesis 5:18 When Jared had lived 162 years, he fathered Enoch.
Genesis 5:19 Jared lived after he fathered Enoch 800 years and had other sons and daughters.
Genesis 5:20 Thus all the days of Jared were 962 years, and he died.
Genesis 5:21 When Enoch had lived 65 years, he fathered Methuselah.
Genesis 5:22 Enoch  after he fathered Methuselah 300 years and had other sons and daughters.
Genesis 5:23 Thus all the days of Enoch were 365 years.
Genesis 5:24 Enoch for God took him.
Genesis 5:25 When Methuselah had lived 187 years, he fathered Lamech.
Genesis 5:26 Methuselah lived after he fathered Lamech 782 years and had other sons and daughters.
Genesis 5:27 Thus all the days of Methuselah were 969 years, and he died.
Genesis 5:28 When Lamech had lived 182 years, he fathered a son
Genesis 5:29 and called his name Noah, saying, “Out of the ground  from our work and from the painful toil of our hands.”
Genesis 5:30 Lamech lived after he fathered Noah 595 years and had other sons and daughters.
Genesis 5:31 Thus all the days of Lamech were 777 years, and he died.
Genesis 5:32 After Noah was 500 years old, Noah fathered Japheth.
Genesis 6:1 When man began to multiply on the face of the land and daughters were born to them,
Genesis 6:2 the sons of God saw that the daughters of man were attractive. And they took as their wives any they chose.
Genesis 6:3 Then the LORD said, for he is flesh: his days shall be 120 years.”
Genesis 6:4 The Nephilim  were on the earth in those days, and also afterward, when the sons of God came in to the daughters of man and they bore children to them. These were the mighty men who were of old, the men of renown.
Genesis 6:5  intention of the thoughts of his heart was only evil continually.
Genesis 6:6 And grieved him to his heart.
Genesis 6:7 So the LORD said, “I will blot out man whom I have created from the face of the land, man and animals and creeping things and birds of the heavens, for I am sorry that I have made them.”
Genesis 6:8 But Noah found favor in the eyes of the LORD.
Genesis 6:9 These are the generations of Noah. walked with God.
Genesis 6:10 And Noah had three sons, Shem, Ham, and Japheth.
Genesis 6:11 Now the earth was corrupt in God's sight, and the earth was filled with violence.
Genesis 6:12 And God for all flesh had corrupted their way on the earth.
Genesis 6:13 And God said to Noah,  for the earth is filled with violence through them. Behold, I will destroy them with the earth.
Genesis 6:14 Make yourself an ark of gopher wood.  Make rooms in the ark, and cover it inside and out with pitch.
Genesis 6:15 This is how you are to make it: the length of the ark 300 cubits,  its breadth 50 cubits, and its height 30 cubits.
Genesis 6:16 Make a roof  for the ark, and finish it to a cubit above, and set the door of the ark in its side. Make it with lower, second, and third decks.
Genesis 6:17  For behold, I will bring a flood of waters upon the earth to destroy all flesh in which is the breath of life under heaven. Everything that is on the earth shall die.
Genesis 6:18 But I will establish my covenant with you, and you shall come into the ark, you, your sons, your wife, and your sons' wives with you.
Genesis 6:19 And of every living thing of all flesh, you shall bring two of every sort into the ark to keep them alive with you. They shall be male and female.
Genesis 6:20 Of the birds according to their kinds, and of the animals according to their kinds, of every creeping thing of the ground, according to its kind, two of every sort shall come in to you to keep them alive.
Genesis 6:21 Also take with you every sort of food that is eaten, and store it up. It shall serve as food for you and for them.”
Genesis 6:22  Noah did this; he did all that God commanded him.
Genesis 7:1 Then the LORD said to Noah, you are righteous before me in this generation.
Genesis 7:2 Take with you seven pairs of all  the male and his mate, and a pair of the animals that are not clean, the male and his mate,
Genesis 7:3 and seven pairs  of the birds of the heavens also, male and female, to keep their offspring alive on the face of all the earth.
Genesis 7:4 For in seven days  that I have made I will blot out from the face of the ground.”
Genesis 7:5  And Noah did all that the LORD had commanded him.
Genesis 7:6 Noah was six hundred years old when the flood of waters came upon the earth.
Genesis 7:7 And Noah and his sons and his wife and his sons' wives with him went into the ark to escape the waters of the flood.
Genesis 7:8 Of clean animals, and of animals that are not clean, and of birds, and of everything that creeps on the ground,
Genesis 7:9 two and two, male and female, went into the ark with Noah, as God had commanded Noah.
Genesis 7:10 And after seven days the waters of the flood came upon the earth.
Genesis 7:11 In the six hundredth year of Noah's life, in the second month, on the seventeenth day of the month, on that day all the the windows of the heavens were opened.
Genesis 7:12 And rain fell upon the earth forty days and forty nights.
Genesis 7:13 On the very same day Noah and his sons, Shem and Ham and Japheth, and Noah's wife and the three wives of his sons with them entered the ark,
Genesis 7:14 they and every beast, according to its kind, and all the livestock according to their kinds, and every creeping thing that creeps on the earth, according to its kind, and every bird, according to its kind, every winged creature.
Genesis 7:15 They went into the ark with Noah, two and two of all flesh in which there was the breath of life.
Genesis 7:16 And those that entered, male and female of all flesh, went in as God had commanded him. And the LORD shut him in.
Genesis 7:17 The flood continued forty days on the earth. The waters increased and bore up the ark, and it rose high above the earth.
Genesis 7:18 The waters prevailed and increased greatly on the earth, and the ark floated on the face of the waters.
Genesis 7:19 And the waters prevailed so mightily on the earth that all the high mountains under the whole heaven were covered.
Genesis 7:20 The waters prevailed above the mountains, covering them fifteen cubits  deep.
Genesis 7:21 And all flesh died that moved on the earth, birds, livestock, beasts, all swarming creatures that swarm on the earth, and all mankind.
Genesis 7:22 Everything on the dry land in whose nostrils was the breath of life died.
Genesis 7:23 He blotted out every living thing that was on the face of the ground, man and animals and creeping things and birds of the heavens. They were blotted out from the earth. Only Noah was left, and those who were with him in the ark.
Genesis 7:24 And the waters prevailed on the earth 150 days.
Genesis 8:1 But God God made a wind blow over the earth, and the waters subsided.
Genesis 8:2  the windows of the heavens were closed, the rain from the heavens was restrained,
Genesis 8:3 and the waters receded from the earth continually. At the end of 150 days the waters had abated,
Genesis 8:4 and in the seventh month, on the seventeenth day of the month, the ark came to rest on the mountains of Ararat.
Genesis 8:5 And the waters continued to abate until the tenth month; in the tenth month, on the first day of the month, the tops of the mountains were seen.
Genesis 8:6 At the end of forty days Noah opened the window of the ark that he had made
Genesis 8:7 and sent forth a raven. It went to and fro until the waters were dried up from the earth.
Genesis 8:8 Then he sent forth a dove from him, to see if the waters had subsided from the face of the ground.
Genesis 8:9 But the dove found no place to set her foot, and she returned to him to the ark, for the waters were still on the face of the whole earth. So he put out his hand and took her and brought her into the ark with him.
Genesis 8:10 He waited another seven days, and again he sent forth the dove out of the ark.
Genesis 8:11 And the dove came back to him in the evening, and behold, in her mouth was a freshly plucked olive leaf. So Noah knew that the waters had subsided from the earth.
Genesis 8:12 Then he waited another seven days and sent forth the dove, and she did not return to him anymore.
Genesis 8:13 In the six hundred and first year, in the first month, the first day of the month, the waters were dried from off the earth. And Noah removed the covering of the ark and looked, and behold, the face of the ground was dry.
Genesis 8:14 In the second month, on the twenty-seventh day of the month, the earth had dried out.
Genesis 8:15 Then God said to Noah,
Genesis 8:16 “Go out from the ark, you and your wife, and your sons and your sons' wives with you.
Genesis 8:17 Bring out with you every living thing that is with you of all flesh — birds and animals and every creeping thing that creeps on the earth — that they may swarm on the earth, and be fruitful and multiply on the earth.”
Genesis 8:18 So Noah went out, and his sons and his wife and his sons' wives with him.
Genesis 8:19 Every beast, every creeping thing, and every bird, everything that moves on the earth, went out by families from the ark.
Genesis 8:20 Then Noah built an altar to the LORD and took some of every clean animal and some of every clean bird and offered burnt offerings on the altar.
Genesis 8:21 And when the LORD smelled Neither will I ever again strike down every living creature as I have done.
Genesis 8:22  day and night, shall not cease.”
Genesis 9:1 And God blessed Noah and his sons and said to them, “Be fruitful and multiply and fill the earth.
Genesis 9:2  The fear of you and the dread of you shall be upon every beast of the earth and upon every bird of the heavens, upon everything that creeps on the ground and all the fish of the sea. Into your hand they are delivered.
Genesis 9:3  as I gave you the green plants, I give you everything.
Genesis 9:4 But you shall not eat flesh with its life, that is, its blood.
Genesis 9:5 And for your lifeblood I will require a reckoning: from man. From his fellow man I will require a reckoning for the life of man.
Genesis 9:6 for God made man in his own image.
Genesis 9:7 And you,  be fruitful and multiply, increase greatly on the earth and multiply in it.”
Genesis 9:8 Then God said to Noah and to his sons with him,
Genesis 9:9 “Behold, I establish my covenant with you and your offspring after you,
Genesis 9:10 and with every living creature that is with you, the birds, the livestock, and every beast of the earth with you, as many as came out of the ark; it is for every beast of the earth.
Genesis 9:11  I establish my covenant with you, that never again shall all flesh be cut off by the waters of the flood, and never again shall there be a flood to destroy the earth.”
Genesis 9:12 And God said, “This is the sign of the covenant that I make between me and you and every living creature that is with you, for all future generations:
Genesis 9:13 I have set my bow in the cloud, and it shall be a sign of the covenant between me and the earth.
Genesis 9:14 When I bring clouds over the earth and the bow is seen in the clouds,
Genesis 9:15  I will remember my covenant that is between me and you and every living creature of all flesh. And the waters shall never again become a flood to destroy all flesh.
Genesis 9:16 When the bow is in the clouds, I will see it and remember the everlasting covenant between God and every living creature of all flesh that is on the earth.”
Genesis 9:17 God said to Noah, “This is the sign of the covenant that I have established between me and all flesh that is on the earth.”
Genesis 9:18 The sons of Noah who went forth from the ark were Shem, Ham, and Japheth. (Ham was the father of Canaan.)
Genesis 9:19 These three were the sons of Noah, and
Genesis 9:20 Noah began to be a man of the soil, and he planted a vineyard.
Genesis 9:21 He drank of the wine and became drunk and lay uncovered in his tent.
Genesis 9:22 And Ham, the father of Canaan, saw the nakedness of his father and told his two brothers outside.
Genesis 9:23 Then Shem and Japheth took a garment, laid it on both their shoulders, and walked backward and covered the nakedness of their father. Their faces were turned backward, and they did not see their father's nakedness.
Genesis 9:24 When Noah awoke from his wine and knew what his youngest son had done to him,
Genesis 9:25 he said, a servant of servants shall he be to his brothers.”
Genesis 9:26 He also said, “Blessed be the LORD, the God of Shem; and let Canaan be his servant.
Genesis 9:27 May God enlarge Japheth,  and let him dwell in the tents of Shem, and let Canaan be his servant.”
Genesis 9:28 After the flood Noah lived 350 years.
Genesis 9:29 All the days of Noah were 950 years, and he died.
Genesis 10:1 These are the generations of the sons of Noah, Shem, Ham, and Japheth. Sons were born to them after the flood.
Genesis 10:2  The sons of Japheth: Gomer, Magog, Madai, Javan, Tubal, Meshech, and Tiras.
Genesis 10:3 The sons of Gomer: Ashkenaz, Riphath, and Togarmah.
Genesis 10:4 The sons of Javan: Elishah, Kittim, and Dodanim.
Genesis 10:5 From these the coastland peoples spread in their lands, each with his own language, by their clans, in their nations.
Genesis 10:6  The sons of Ham: Cush, Egypt, Put, and Canaan.
Genesis 10:7 The sons of Cush: Seba, Havilah, Sabtah, Raamah, and Sabteca. The sons of Raamah: Sheba and Dedan.
Genesis 10:8 Cush fathered Nimrod; he was the first on earth to be a mighty man.
Genesis 10:9 He was a mighty hunter before the LORD. Therefore it is said, “Like Nimrod a mighty hunter before the LORD.”
Genesis 10:10 The beginning of his kingdom was the land of Shinar.
Genesis 10:11 From that land he went into Assyria and built Nineveh, Rehoboth-Ir, Calah, and
Genesis 10:12 Resen between Nineveh and Calah; that is the great city.
Genesis 10:13  Egypt fathered Ludim, Anamim, Lehabim, Naphtuhim,
Genesis 10:14 Pathrusim, Casluhim (from whom Caphtorim.
Genesis 10:15  Canaan fathered Sidon his firstborn and Heth,
Genesis 10:16 and the Jebusites, the Amorites, the Girgashites,
Genesis 10:17 the Hivites, the Arkites, the Sinites,
Genesis 10:18 the Arvadites, the Zemarites, and the Hamathites. Afterward the clans of the Canaanites dispersed.
Genesis 10:19 And the territory of the Canaanites extended from Sidon in the direction of Gerar as far as Gaza, and in the direction of Sodom, Gomorrah, Admah, and Zeboiim, as far as Lasha.
Genesis 10:20 These are the sons of Ham, by their clans, their languages, their lands, and their nations.
Genesis 10:21 To Shem also, the father of all the children of Eber, the elder brother of Japheth, children were born.
Genesis 10:22 The sons of Shem: Elam, Asshur, Arpachshad, Lud, and Aram.
Genesis 10:23 The sons of Aram: Uz, Hul, Gether, and Mash.
Genesis 10:24 Arpachshad fathered Shelah; and Shelah fathered Eber.
Genesis 10:25   for in his days the earth was divided, and his brother's name was Joktan.
Genesis 10:26 Joktan fathered Almodad, Sheleph, Hazarmaveth, Jerah,
Genesis 10:27 Hadoram, Uzal, Diklah,
Genesis 10:28 Obal, Abimael, Sheba,
Genesis 10:29  Ophir, Havilah, and Jobab; all these were the sons of Joktan.
Genesis 10:30 The territory in which they lived extended from Mesha in the direction of Sephar to the hill country of the east.
Genesis 10:31 These are the sons of Shem, by their clans, their languages, their lands, and their nations.
Genesis 10:32 These are the clans of the sons of Noah, according to their genealogies, in their nations, and from these the nations spread abroad on the earth after the flood.
Genesis 11:1 Now the whole earth had one language and the same words.
Genesis 11:2 And as people migrated from the east, they found a plain in the land of Shinar and settled there.
Genesis 11:3 And they said to one another, “Come, let us make bricks, and burn them thoroughly.” And they had brick for stone, and bitumen for mortar.
Genesis 11:4 Then they said, “Come, let us build ourselves a city and a tower with its top in the heavens, and let us make a name for ourselves, lest we be dispersed over the face of the whole earth.”
Genesis 11:5 And the LORD came down to see the city and the tower, which the children of man had built.
Genesis 11:6 And the LORD said, “Behold, they are one people, and they have all one language, and this is only the beginning of what they will do. And nothing that they propose to do will now be impossible for them.
Genesis 11:7 Come, let us go down and there confuse their language, so that they may not understand one another's speech.”
Genesis 11:8 So the LORD dispersed them from there over the face of all the earth, and they left off building the city.
Genesis 11:9 Therefore its name was called  the language of all the earth. And from there the LORD dispersed them over the face of all the earth.
Genesis 11:10  These are the generations of Shem. When Shem was 100 years old, he fathered Arpachshad two years after the flood.
Genesis 11:11 And Shem lived after he fathered Arpachshad 500 years and had other sons and daughters.
Genesis 11:12 When Arpachshad had lived 35 years, he fathered Shelah.
Genesis 11:13 And Arpachshad lived after he fathered Shelah 403 years and had other sons and daughters.
Genesis 11:14 When Shelah had lived 30 years, he fathered Eber.
Genesis 11:15 And Shelah lived after he fathered Eber 403 years and had other sons and daughters.
Genesis 11:16 When Eber had lived 34 years, he fathered Peleg.
Genesis 11:17 And Eber lived after he fathered Peleg 430 years and had other sons and daughters.
Genesis 11:18 When Peleg had lived 30 years, he fathered Reu.
Genesis 11:19 And Peleg lived after he fathered Reu 209 years and had other sons and daughters.
Genesis 11:20 When Reu had lived 32 years, he fathered Serug.
Genesis 11:21 And Reu lived after he fathered Serug 207 years and had other sons and daughters.
Genesis 11:22 When Serug had lived 30 years, he fathered Nahor.
Genesis 11:23 And Serug lived after he fathered Nahor 200 years and had other sons and daughters.
Genesis 11:24 When Nahor had lived 29 years, he fathered Terah.
Genesis 11:25 And Nahor lived after he fathered Terah 119 years and had other sons and daughters.
Genesis 11:26 When Terah had lived 70 years, he fathered Abram, Nahor, and Haran.
Genesis 11:27 Now these are the generations of Terah. Terah fathered Abram, Nahor, and Haran; and Haran fathered Lot.
Genesis 11:28 Haran died in the presence of his father Terah in the land of his kindred, in Ur of the Chaldeans.
Genesis 11:29 And Abram and Nahor took wives. The name of Abram's wife was Milcah, the daughter of Haran the father of Milcah and Iscah.
Genesis 11:30 Now Sarai was barren; she had no child.
Genesis 11:31 Terah from Ur of the Chaldeans to go into the land of Canaan, but when they came to Haran, they settled there.
Genesis 11:32 The days of Terah were 205 years, and Terah died in Haran.
Genesis 12:1 Now  and your kindred and your father's house to the land that I will show you.
Genesis 12:2  And I will make of you a great nation, and I will bless you and make your name great, so that you will be a blessing.
Genesis 12:3
Genesis 12:4 So Abram went, as the LORD had told him, and Lot went with him. Abram was seventy-five years old when he departed from Haran.
Genesis 12:5 And Abram took Sarai his wife, and Lot his brother's son, and all their possessions that they had gathered, and the people that they had acquired in Haran, and they set out to go to the land of Canaan. When they came to the land of Canaan,
Genesis 12:6 Abram the Canaanites were in the land.
Genesis 12:7 Then the LORD appeared to Abram and said, “To your offspring I will give this land.” So he built there an altar to the LORD, who had appeared to him.
Genesis 12:8 From there he moved to the hill country on the east of Bethel and pitched his tent, with Bethel on the west and Ai on the east. And there he built an altar to the LORD and called upon the name of the LORD.
Genesis 12:9 And Abram journeyed on, still going toward the Negeb.
Genesis 12:10 Now there was a famine in the land. So Abram went down to Egypt to sojourn there, for the famine was severe in the land.
Genesis 12:11 When he was about to enter Egypt, he said to Sarai his wife, “I know that you are a woman beautiful in appearance,
Genesis 12:12 and when the Egyptians see you, they will say, ‘This is his wife.’ Then they will kill me, but they will let you live.
Genesis 12:13 Say you are my sister, that it may go well with me because of you, and that my life may be spared for your sake.”
Genesis 12:14 When Abram entered Egypt, the Egyptians saw that the woman was very beautiful.
Genesis 12:15 And when the princes of Pharaoh saw her, they praised her to Pharaoh. And the woman was taken into Pharaoh's house.
Genesis 12:16 And for her sake he dealt well with Abram; and he had sheep, oxen, male donkeys, male servants, female servants, female donkeys, and camels.
Genesis 12:17 But the LORD afflicted Pharaoh and his house with great plagues because of Sarai, Abram's wife.
Genesis 12:18 So Pharaoh called Abram and said, “What is this you have done to me? Why did you not tell me that she was your wife?
Genesis 12:19 Why did you say, ‘She is my sister,’ so that I took her for my wife? Now then, here is your wife; take her, and go.”
Genesis 12:20 And Pharaoh gave men orders concerning him, and they sent him away with his wife and all that he had.
Genesis 13:1 So Abram went up from Egypt, he and his wife and all that he had, and Lot with him, into the Negeb.
Genesis 13:2  Now Abram was very rich in livestock, in silver, and in gold.
Genesis 13:3 And he journeyed on from the Negeb as far as Bethel to the place where his tent had been at the beginning, between Bethel and Ai,
Genesis 13:4 to the place where he had made an altar at the first. And there Abram called upon the name of the LORD.
Genesis 13:5 And Lot, who went with Abram, also had flocks and herds and tents,
Genesis 13:6 so that the land could not support both of them dwelling together; for their possessions were so great that they could not dwell together,
Genesis 13:7  the Canaanites and the Perizzites were dwelling in the land.
Genesis 13:8 Then Abram said to Lot,
Genesis 13:9  Is not the whole land before you? Separate yourself from me. If you take the left hand, then I will go to the right, or if you take the right hand, then I will go to the left.”
Genesis 13:10 And Lot lifted up his eyes and saw that the destroyed Sodom and Gomorrah.)
Genesis 13:11 So Lot chose for himself all the Jordan Valley, and Lot journeyed east. Thus they separated from each other.
Genesis 13:12 Abram settled in the land of Canaan, while Lot settled among the cities of the valley and moved his tent as far as Sodom.
Genesis 13:13 Now the men of Sodom were wicked, great sinners against the LORD.
Genesis 13:14 The LORD said to Abram, after Lot had separated from him, “Lift up your eyes and look from the place where you are, northward and southward and eastward and westward,
Genesis 13:15 for all the land that you see I will give to your offspring forever.
Genesis 13:16  I will make your offspring as the dust of the earth, so that if one can count the dust of the earth, your offspring also can be counted.
Genesis 13:17 Arise, walk through the length and the breadth of the land, for I will give it to you.”
Genesis 13:18 So Abram moved his tent and came and are at Hebron, and there he built an altar to the LORD.
Genesis 14:1 In the days of Amraphel king of Elam, and Tidal king of Goiim,
Genesis 14:2 these kings made war with Zeboiim, and the king of Bela (that is, Zoar).
Genesis 14:3 And all these joined forces in the Valley of Siddim (that is, the Salt Sea).
Genesis 14:4 Twelve years they had served Chedorlaomer, but in the thirteenth year they rebelled.
Genesis 14:5 In the fourteenth year Chedorlaomer and the kings who were with him came and defeated the Emim in Shaveh-kiriathaim,
Genesis 14:6 and the El-paran on the border of the wilderness.
Genesis 14:7 Then they turned back and came to En-mishpat (that is, in Hazazon-tamar.
Genesis 14:8 Then the king of Sodom, the king of Gomorrah, the king of Admah, the king of Zeboiim, and the king of Bela (that is, Zoar) went out, and they joined battle in the Valley of Siddim
Genesis 14:9 with Chedorlaomer king of Elam, Tidal king of Goiim, Amraphel king of Shinar, and Arioch king of Ellasar, four kings against five.
Genesis 14:10 Now the Valley of Siddim was full of to the hill country.
Genesis 14:11 So the enemy took all the possessions of Sodom and Gomorrah, and all their provisions, and went their way.
Genesis 14:12 They also took Lot, who was dwelling in Sodom, and his possessions, and went their way.
Genesis 14:13 Then one who had escaped came and told Abram the Hebrew,  of Mamre the Amorite, brother of Eshcol and of Aner. These were allies of Abram.
Genesis 14:14 When Abram heard that his kinsman had been taken captive, he led forth his trained men, Dan.
Genesis 14:15 And he divided his forces against them by night, he and his servants, and defeated them and pursued them to Hobah, north of Damascus.
Genesis 14:16 Then he brought back all the possessions, and also brought back his kinsman Lot with his possessions, and the women and the people.
Genesis 14:17 After his return from the defeat of Chedorlaomer and the kings who were with him, the king of Sodom went out to meet him at the Valley of Shaveh (that is, the King's Valley).
Genesis 14:18 And God Most High.)
Genesis 14:19 And he blessed him and said,   of heaven and earth;
Genesis 14:20 and blessed be God Most High, who has delivered your enemies into your hand!”  And Abram gave him a tenth of everything.
Genesis 14:21 And the king of Sodom said to Abram, “Give me the persons, but take the goods for yourself.”
Genesis 14:22 But Abram said to the king of Sodom,  to the LORD, God Most High, Possessor of heaven and earth,
Genesis 14:23 that I would not take a thread or a sandal strap or anything that is yours, lest you should say, ‘I have made Abram rich.’
Genesis 14:24 I will take nothing but what the young men have eaten, and the share of the men who went with me. Let Aner, Eshcol, and Mamre take their share.”
Genesis 15:1 After these things the word of the LORD came to Abram in a vision: your shield; your reward shall be very great.”
Genesis 15:2 But Abram said, “O Lord GOD, what will you give me, for I continue  childless, and the heir of my house is Eliezer of Damascus?”
Genesis 15:3 And Abram said, “Behold, you have given me no offspring, and a member of my household will be my heir.”
Genesis 15:4 And behold, the word of the LORD came to him: “This man shall not be your heir;  shall be your heir.”
Genesis 15:5 And he brought him outside and said, “Look toward heaven, and “So shall your offspring be.”
Genesis 15:6 And he counted it to him as righteousness.
Genesis 15:7 And he said to him, “I am the LORD who to give you this land to possess.”
Genesis 15:8 But he said, “O Lord GOD, how am I to know that I shall possess it?”
Genesis 15:9 He said to him, “Bring me a heifer three years old, a female goat three years old, a ram three years old, a turtledove, and a young pigeon.”
Genesis 15:10 And he brought him all these, he did not cut the birds in half.
Genesis 15:11 And when birds of prey came down on the carcasses, Abram drove them away.
Genesis 15:12 As the sun was going down, a deep sleep fell on Abram. And behold, dreadful and great darkness fell upon him.
Genesis 15:13 Then the LORD said to Abram, “Know for certain four hundred years.
Genesis 15:14 But they shall come out with great possessions.
Genesis 15:15 As for you, you shall go to your fathers in peace; you shall be buried in a good old age.
Genesis 15:16 And they shall come back here in the fourth generation, for is not yet complete.”
Genesis 15:17 When the sun had gone down and it was dark, behold, a smoking fire pot and a flaming torch passed between these pieces.
Genesis 15:18 On that day the LORD made a covenant with Abram, saying, the river of Egypt to the great river, the river Euphrates,
Genesis 15:19 the land of the Kenites, the Kenizzites, the Kadmonites,
Genesis 15:20 the Hittites, the Perizzites, the Rephaim,
Genesis 15:21 the Amorites, the Canaanites, the Girgashites and the Jebusites.”
Genesis 16:1  Hagar.
Genesis 16:2 And Sarai said to Abram, “Behold now, the LORD has prevented me from bearing children. Go in to my servant; it may be that I shall obtain children  by her.” And Abram listened to the voice of Sarai.
Genesis 16:3 So, after Abram had lived ten years in the land of Canaan, Sarai, Abram's wife, took Hagar the Egyptian, her servant, and gave her to Abram her husband as a wife.
Genesis 16:4 And he went in to Hagar, and she conceived. And when she saw that she had conceived,
Genesis 16:5 And Sarai said to Abram, “May the wrong done to me be on you! I gave my servant to your embrace, and when she saw that she had conceived, she looked on me with contempt. May the LORD judge between you and me!”
Genesis 16:6 But Abram said to Sarai, “Behold, your servant is in your power; do to her as you please.” Then Sarai dealt harshly with her, and she fled from her.
Genesis 16:7 The angel of the LORD found her by a spring of water in the wilderness, the spring on the way to Shur.
Genesis 16:8 And he said, “Hagar, servant of Sarai, where have you come from and where are you going?” She said, “I am fleeing from my mistress Sarai.”
Genesis 16:9 The angel of the LORD said to her, “Return to your mistress and submit to her.”
Genesis 16:10 The angel of the LORD also said to her, “I will surely multiply your offspring so that they cannot be numbered for multitude.”
Genesis 16:11 And the angel of the LORD said to her, “Behold, you are pregnant and shall bear a son. You shall call his name Ishmael,because the LORD has listened to your affliction.
Genesis 16:12 He shall be over against all his kinsmen.”
Genesis 16:13 So she called the name of the LORD who spoke to her, “You are a God of seeing,”
Genesis 16:14 Therefore the well was called Kadesh and Bered.
Genesis 16:15 And Hagar bore Abram a son, and Abram called the name of his son, whom Hagar bore, Ishmael.
Genesis 16:16 Abram was eighty-six years old when Hagar bore Ishmael to Abram.
Genesis 17:1 When Abram was ninety-nine years old the LORD appeared to Abram and said to him, “I am God Almighty; blameless,
Genesis 17:2 that I may make my covenant between me and you, and may multiply you greatly.”
Genesis 17:3 Then Abram fell on his face. And God said to him,
Genesis 17:4 “Behold, my covenant is with you, and you shall be the father of a multitude of nations.
Genesis 17:5 No longer shall your name be called Abram, for I have made you the father of a multitude of nations.
Genesis 17:6 I will make you exceedingly fruitful, and I will make kings shall come from you.
Genesis 17:7 And I will to be God to you and to your offspring after you.
Genesis 17:8 And I will be their God.”
Genesis 17:9 And God said to Abraham, “As for you, you shall keep my covenant, you and your offspring after you throughout their generations.
Genesis 17:10 This is my covenant, which you shall keep, between me and you and your offspring after you: Every male among you shall be circumcised.
Genesis 17:11 You shall be circumcised in the flesh of your foreskins, and it shall be a sign of the covenant between me and you.
Genesis 17:12 He who is bought with your money from any foreigner who is not of your offspring,
Genesis 17:13 both he who is born in your house and he who is bought with your money, shall surely be circumcised. So shall my covenant be in your flesh an everlasting covenant.
Genesis 17:14 Any uncircumcised male who is not circumcised in the flesh of his foreskin shall be cut off from his people; he has broken my covenant.”
Genesis 17:15 And God said to Abraham, “As for Sarai your wife, you shall not call her name Sarai, but Sarah  shall be her name.
Genesis 17:16 I will bless her, and moreover, I will she shall become nations; kings of peoples shall come from her.”
Genesis 17:17 Then Abraham and laughed and said to himself, “Shall a child be born to a man who is a hundred years old? Shall Sarah, who is ninety years old, bear a child?”
Genesis 17:18 And Abraham said to God, “Oh that Ishmael might live before you!”
Genesis 17:19 God said, “No, but  I will establish my covenant with him as an everlasting covenant for his offspring after him.
Genesis 17:20 As for Ishmael, I have heard you; behold, I have blessed him and will make him fruitful and I will make him into a great nation.
Genesis 17:21 But whom Sarah shall bear to you at this time next year.”
Genesis 17:22 When he had finished talking with him, God went up from Abraham.
Genesis 17:23 Then Abraham took Ishmael his son and all those born in his house or bought with his money, every male among the men of Abraham's house, and he circumcised the flesh of their foreskins that very day, as God had said to him.
Genesis 17:24 Abraham was ninety-nine years old when he was circumcised in the flesh of his foreskin.
Genesis 17:25 And Ishmael his son was thirteen years old when he was circumcised in the flesh of his foreskin.
Genesis 17:26 That very day Abraham and his son Ishmael were circumcised.
Genesis 17:27 And all the men of his house, those born in the house and those bought with money from a foreigner, were circumcised with him.
Genesis 18:1 And the LORD appeared to him by the  of Mamre, as he sat at the door of his tent in the heat of the day.
Genesis 18:2 He lifted up his eyes and looked, and behold, three men were standing in front of him. When he saw them, he ran from the tent door to meet them and bowed himself to the earth
Genesis 18:3 and said, “O Lord,  if I have found favor in your sight, do not pass by your servant.
Genesis 18:4 Let a little water be brought, and wash your feet, and rest yourselves under the tree,
Genesis 18:5 while I bring a morsel of bread, that since you have come to your servant.” So they said, “Do as you have said.”
Genesis 18:6 And Abraham went quickly into the tent to Sarah and said, “Quick! Three seahs  of fine flour! Knead it, and make cakes.”
Genesis 18:7 And Abraham ran to the herd and took a calf, tender and good, and gave it to a young man, who prepared it quickly.
Genesis 18:8 Then he took curds and milk and the calf that he had prepared, and set it before them. And he stood by them under the tree while they ate.
Genesis 18:9 They said to him, “Where is Sarah your wife?” And he said, “She is in the tent.”
Genesis 18:10 The LORD said, “I will surely return to you Sarah your wife shall have a son.” And Sarah was listening at the tent door behind him.
Genesis 18:11 Now Abraham and Sarah were old, advanced in years. The way of women had ceased to be with Sarah.
Genesis 18:12  my lord is old, shall I have pleasure?”
Genesis 18:13 The LORD said to Abraham, “Why did Sarah laugh and say, ‘Shall I indeed bear a child, now that I am old?’
Genesis 18:14  At the appointed time I will return to you, about this time next year, and Sarah shall have a son.”
Genesis 18:15 But Sarah denied it,  saying, “I did not laugh,” for she was afraid. He said, “No, but you did laugh.”
Genesis 18:16 Then the men set out from there, and they looked down toward Sodom. And Abraham went with them to set them on their way.
Genesis 18:17 The LORD said, “Shall I hide from Abraham what I am about to do,
Genesis 18:18 seeing that Abraham shall surely become a great and mighty nation, and all the nations of the earth shall be blessed in him?
Genesis 18:19 For I have  him, that he may command his children and his household after him to keep the way of the LORD by doing righteousness and justice, so that the LORD may bring to Abraham what he has promised him.”
Genesis 18:20 Then the LORD said, “Because the outcry against Sodom and Gomorrah is great and their sin is very grave,
Genesis 18:21  I will know.”
Genesis 18:22  still stood before the LORD.
Genesis 18:23 Then Abraham drew near and said, “Will you indeed sweep away the righteous with the wicked?
Genesis 18:24 Suppose there are fifty righteous within the city. Will you then sweep away the place and not spare it for the fifty righteous who are in it?
Genesis 18:25 Far be it from you to do such a thing, to put the righteous to death with the wicked, Shall not the Judge of all the earth do what is just?”
Genesis 18:26 And the LORD said, “If I find at Sodom fifty righteous in the city, I will spare the whole place for their sake.”
Genesis 18:27 Abraham answered and said, “Behold, I have undertaken to speak to the Lord, I who am but dust and ashes.
Genesis 18:28 Suppose five of the fifty righteous are lacking. Will you destroy the whole city for lack of five?” And he said, “I will not destroy it if I find forty-five there.”
Genesis 18:29 Again he spoke to him and said, “Suppose forty are found there.” He answered, “For the sake of forty I will not do it.”
Genesis 18:30 Then he said, “Oh let not the Lord be angry, and I will speak. Suppose thirty are found there.” He answered, “I will not do it, if I find thirty there.”
Genesis 18:31 He said, “Behold, I have undertaken to speak to the Lord. Suppose twenty are found there.” He answered, “For the sake of twenty I will not destroy it.”
Genesis 18:32 Then he said, “Oh let not the Lord be angry, and I will speak again but this once. Suppose ten are found there.” He answered, “For the sake of ten I will not destroy it.”
Genesis 18:33 And the LORD went his way, when he had finished speaking to Abraham, and Abraham returned to his place.
Genesis 19:1 The two angels came to Sodom in the evening, and Lot was sitting in the gate of Sodom. When Lot saw them, he rose to meet them and bowed himself with his face to the earth
Genesis 19:2 and said, “My lords, “No; we will spend the night in the town square.”
Genesis 19:3 But he pressed them strongly; so they turned aside to him and entered his house. And he made them a feast and baked unleavened bread, and they ate.
Genesis 19:4 But before they lay down, the men of the city, the men of Sodom, both young and old, all the people to the last man, surrounded the house.
Genesis 19:5  may know them.”
Genesis 19:6 Lot went out to the men at the entrance, shut the door after him,
Genesis 19:7 and said, “I beg you, my brothers, do not act so wickedly.
Genesis 19:8  Behold, I have two daughters who have not known any man. Let me bring them out to you, and do to them as you please. Only do nothing to these men, for they have come under the shelter of my roof.”
Genesis 19:9 But they said, “Stand back!” And they said, “This fellow he has become the judge! Now we will deal worse with you than with them.” Then they pressed hard against the man Lot, and drew near to break the door down.
Genesis 19:10 But the men reached out their hands and brought Lot into the house with them and shut the door.
Genesis 19:11 And they struck with blindness the men who were at the entrance of the house, both small and great, so that they wore themselves out groping for the door.
Genesis 19:12 Then the men said to Lot, “Have you anyone else here? Sons-in-law, sons, daughters, or anyone you have in the city, bring them out of the place.
Genesis 19:13 For we are about to destroy this place, because the outcry against its people has become great before the LORD, and the LORD has sent us to destroy it.”
Genesis 19:14 So Lot went out and said to his sons-in-law, who were to marry his daughters, “Up! Get out of this place, for the LORD is about to destroy the city.” But he seemed to his sons-in-law to be jesting.
Genesis 19:15 As morning dawned, the angels urged Lot, saying, “Up! Take your wife and your two daughters who are here, lest you be swept away in the punishment of the city.”
Genesis 19:16 But he lingered. So the men seized him and his wife and his two daughters by the hand, the LORD being merciful to him, and they brought him out and set him outside the city.
Genesis 19:17 And as they brought them out, one said, “Escape for your life. valley. Escape to the hills, lest you be swept away.”
Genesis 19:18 And Lot said to them, “Oh, no, my lords.
Genesis 19:19 Behold, your servant has found favor in your sight, and you have shown me great kindness in saving my life. But I cannot escape to the hills, lest the disaster overtake me and I die.
Genesis 19:20 Behold, this city is near enough to flee to, and it is a little one. Let me escape there — is it not a little one? — and my life will be saved!”
Genesis 19:21 He said to him, “Behold, I grant you this favor also, that I will not overthrow the city of which you have spoken.
Genesis 19:22 Escape there quickly, for I can do nothing till you arrive there.” Therefore the name of the city was called
Genesis 19:23 The sun had risen on the earth when Lot came to Zoar.
Genesis 19:24 Then the LORD rained on Sodom and Gomorrah sulfur and fire from the LORD out of heaven.
Genesis 19:25 And he overthrew those cities, and all the valley, and all the inhabitants of the cities, and what grew on the ground.
Genesis 19:26 But Lot's wife, behind him, looked back, and she became a pillar of salt.
Genesis 19:27 And Abraham went early in the morning to the place where he had stood before the LORD.
Genesis 19:28 And he looked down toward Sodom and Gomorrah and toward all the land of the valley, and he looked and, behold, the smoke of the land went up like the smoke of a furnace.
Genesis 19:29 So it was that, when God destroyed the cities of the valley, God remembered Abraham and sent Lot out of the midst of the overthrow when he overthrew the cities in which Lot had lived.
Genesis 19:30 Now Lot went up out of Zoar and lived in the hills with his two daughters, for he was afraid to live in Zoar. So he lived in a cave with his two daughters.
Genesis 19:31 And the firstborn said to the younger, “Our father is old, and there is not a man on earth to come in to us after the manner of all the earth.
Genesis 19:32 Come, let us make our father drink wine, and we will lie with him, that we may preserve offspring from our father.”
Genesis 19:33 So they made their father drink wine that night. And the firstborn went in and lay with her father. He did not know when she lay down or when she arose.
Genesis 19:34 The next day, the firstborn said to the younger, “Behold, I lay last night with my father. Let us make him drink wine tonight also. Then you go in and lie with him, that we may preserve offspring from our father.”
Genesis 19:35 So they made their father drink wine that night also. And the younger arose and lay with him, and he did not know when she lay down or when she arose.
Genesis 19:36 Thus both the daughters of Lot became pregnant by their father.
Genesis 19:37 The firstborn bore a son and called his name Moab. He is the father of the Moabites to this day.
Genesis 19:38 The younger also bore a son and called his name Ben-ammi. He is the father of the Ammonites to this day.
Genesis 20:1 From there Abraham journeyed toward the territory of the Negeb and lived between Gerar.
Genesis 20:2 And Abraham said of Sarah his wife, “She is my sister.” And Abimelech king of Gerar sent and took Sarah.
Genesis 20:3  in a dream by night and said to him, “Behold, you are a dead man because of the woman whom you have taken, for she is a man's wife.”
Genesis 20:4 Now Abimelech had not approached her. So he said, “Lord, will you kill an innocent people?
Genesis 20:5 Did he not himself say to me, ‘She is my sister’? And she herself said, ‘He is my brother.’ In the integrity of my heart and the innocence of my hands I have done this.”
Genesis 20:6 Then God said to him in the dream, “Yes, I know that you have done this in the integrity of your heart, and it was I who kept you from sinning against me. Therefore I did not let you touch her.
Genesis 20:7 Now then, return the man's wife, and all who are yours.”
Genesis 20:8 So Abimelech rose early in the morning and called all his servants and told them all these things. And the men were very much afraid.
Genesis 20:9 Then Abimelech called Abraham and said to him, “What have you done to us? And how have I sinned against you, that you have brought on me and my kingdom a great sin? You have done to me things that ought not to be done.”
Genesis 20:10 And Abimelech said to Abraham, “What did you see, that you did this thing?”
Genesis 20:11 Abraham said, “I did it because I thought, they will kill me because of my wife.’
Genesis 20:12 Besides, she is indeed my sister, the daughter of my father though not the daughter of my mother, and she became my wife.
Genesis 20:13 And when say of me, “He is my brother.”’”
Genesis 20:14 Then Abimelech took sheep and oxen, and male servants and female servants, and gave them to Abraham, and returned Sarah his wife to him.
Genesis 20:15 And Abimelech said, “Behold, my land is before you; dwell where it pleases you.”
Genesis 20:16 To Sarah he said, “Behold, I have given  who are with you, and before everyone you are vindicated.”
Genesis 20:17 Then Abraham prayed to God, and God healed Abimelech, and also healed his wife and female slaves so that they bore children.
Genesis 20:18 For the LORD had closed all the wombs of the house of Abimelech because of Sarah, Abraham's wife.
Genesis 21:1 The LORD as he had promised.
Genesis 21:2 And Sarah at the time of which God had spoken to him.
Genesis 21:3 Abraham called the name of his son who was born to him, whom Sarah bore him,
Genesis 21:4 And Abraham as God had commanded him.
Genesis 21:5  Abraham was a hundred years old when his son Isaac was born to him.
Genesis 21:6 And Sarah said, “God has made laughter for me; everyone who hears will laugh over me.”
Genesis 21:7 And she said, “Who would have said to Abraham that Sarah would nurse children? Yet I have borne him a son in his old age.”
Genesis 21:8 And the child grew and was weaned. And Abraham made a great feast on the day that Isaac was weaned.
Genesis 21:9 But Sarah
Genesis 21:10 So she said to Abraham, “Cast out this slave woman with her son, for the son of this slave woman shall not be heir with my son Isaac.”
Genesis 21:11 And the thing was very displeasing to Abraham on account of his son.
Genesis 21:12 But God said to Abraham, “Be not displeased because of the boy and because of your slave woman. Whatever Sarah says to you, do as she tells you, for through Isaac shall your offspring be named.
Genesis 21:13 And I will make a nation of the son of the slave woman also, because he is your offspring.”
Genesis 21:14 So Abraham rose early in the morning and took bread and a skin of water and gave it to Hagar, putting it on her shoulder, along with the child, and sent her away. And she departed and wandered in the wilderness of Beersheba.
Genesis 21:15 When the water in the skin was gone, she put the child under one of the bushes.
Genesis 21:16 Then she went and sat down opposite him a good way off, about the distance of a bowshot, for she said, “Let me not look on the death of the child.” And as she sat opposite him, she lifted up her voice and wept.
Genesis 21:17 And God heard the voice of the boy, and the angel of God called to Hagar from heaven and said to her, “What troubles you, Hagar? Fear not, for God has heard the voice of the boy where he is.
Genesis 21:18 Up! Lift up the boy, and hold him fast with your hand, for I will make him into a great nation.”
Genesis 21:19 Then God opened her eyes, and she saw a well of water. And she went and filled the skin with water and gave the boy a drink.
Genesis 21:20 And God was with the boy, and he grew up. He lived in the wilderness and became an expert with the bow.
Genesis 21:21 He lived in the wilderness of Paran, and his mother took a wife for him from the land of Egypt.
Genesis 21:22 At that time “God is with you in all that you do.
Genesis 21:23 Now therefore swear to me here by God that you will not deal falsely with me or with my descendants or with my posterity, but as I have dealt kindly with you, so you will deal with me and with the land where you have sojourned.”
Genesis 21:24 And Abraham said, “I will swear.”
Genesis 21:25 When Abraham reproved Abimelech about a well of water that Abimelech's servants had seized,
Genesis 21:26 Abimelech said, “I do not know who has done this thing; you did not tell me, and I have not heard of it until today.”
Genesis 21:27 So Abraham took sheep and oxen and gave them to Abimelech, and the two men made a covenant.
Genesis 21:28 Abraham set seven ewe lambs of the flock apart.
Genesis 21:29 And Abimelech said to Abraham, “What is the meaning of these seven ewe lambs that you have set apart?”
Genesis 21:30 He said, “These seven ewe lambs you will take from my hand, that this  may be a witness for me that I dug this well.”
Genesis 21:31 Therefore  because there both of them swore an oath.
Genesis 21:32 So they made a covenant at Beersheba. Then Abimelech and Phicol the commander of his army rose up and returned to the land of the Philistines.
Genesis 21:33 Abraham planted a tamarisk tree in Beersheba and the Everlasting God.
Genesis 21:34 And Abraham sojourned many days in the land of the Philistines.
Genesis 22:1 After these things God tested Abraham and said to him, “Abraham!” And he said, “Here I am.”
Genesis 22:2 He said, “Take your son, your only son Isaac, whom you love, and go to the land of Moriah, and offer him there as a burnt offering on one of the mountains of which I shall tell you.”
Genesis 22:3 So Abraham rose early in the morning, saddled his donkey, and took two of his young men with him, and his son Isaac. And he cut the wood for the burnt offering and arose and went to the place of which God had told him.
Genesis 22:4 On the third day Abraham lifted up his eyes and saw the place from afar.
Genesis 22:5 Then Abraham said to his young men, “Stay here with the donkey; I and the boy  will go over there and worship and come again to you.”
Genesis 22:6 And Abraham took the wood of the burnt offering and laid it on Isaac his son. And he took in his hand the fire and the knife. So they went both of them together.
Genesis 22:7 And Isaac said to his father Abraham, “My father!” And he said, “Here I am, my son.” He said, “Behold, the fire and the wood, but where is the lamb for a burnt offering?”
Genesis 22:8 Abraham said, “God will provide for himself the lamb for a burnt offering, my son.” So they went both of them together.
Genesis 22:9 When they came to the place of which God had told him, Abraham built the altar there and laid the wood in order and bound Isaac his son and laid him on the altar, on top of the wood.
Genesis 22:10 Then Abraham reached out his hand and took the knife to slaughter his son.
Genesis 22:11 But the angel of the LORD called to him from heaven and said, “Abraham, Abraham!” And he said, “Here I am.”
Genesis 22:12 He said, now I know that you fear God, seeing you have not withheld your son, your only son, from me.”
Genesis 22:13 And Abraham lifted up his eyes and looked, and behold, behind him was a ram, caught in a thicket by his horns. And Abraham went and took the ram and offered it up as a burnt offering instead of his son.
Genesis 22:14 So Abraham called the name of that place,
Genesis 22:15 And the angel of the LORD called to Abraham a second time from heaven
Genesis 22:16 and said, “By myself I have sworn, declares the LORD, because you have done this and have not withheld your son, your only son,
Genesis 22:17 I will surely bless you, and I will surely multiply your offspring  enemies,
Genesis 22:18 and because you have obeyed my voice.”
Genesis 22:19 So Abraham returned to his young men, and they arose and went together to Beersheba.
Genesis 22:20 Now after these things it was told to Abraham, “Behold, Milcah also has borne children to your brother Nahor:
Genesis 22:21  Buz his brother, Kemuel the father of Aram,
Genesis 22:22 Chesed, Hazo, Pildash, Jidlaph, and Bethuel.”
Genesis 22:23 (Bethuel fathered Rebekah.) These eight Milcah bore to Nahor, Abraham's brother.
Genesis 22:24 Moreover, his concubine, whose name was Reumah, bore Tebah, Gaham, Tahash, and Maacah.
Genesis 23:1 Sarah lived 127 years; these were the years of the life of Sarah.
Genesis 23:2 And Sarah died at Hebron) in the land of Canaan, and Abraham went in to mourn for Sarah and to weep for her.
Genesis 23:3 And Abraham rose up from before his dead and said to the Hittites,
Genesis 23:4  give me property among you for a burying place, that I may bury my dead out of my sight.”
Genesis 23:5 The Hittites answered Abraham,
Genesis 23:6 “Hear us, my lord; you are a prince of God  among us. Bury your dead in the choicest of our tombs. None of us will withhold from you his tomb to hinder you from burying your dead.”
Genesis 23:7 Abraham rose and bowed to the Hittites, the people of the land.
Genesis 23:8 And he said to them, “If you are willing that I should bury my dead out of my sight, hear me and entreat for me Ephron the son of Zohar,
Genesis 23:9 that he may give me the cave of Machpelah, which he owns; it is at the end of his field. For the full price let him give it to me in your presence as property for a burying place.”
Genesis 23:10 Now Ephron was sitting among the Hittites, and Ephron the Hittite answered Abraham in the hearing of the Hittites, of all who went in at the gate of his city,
Genesis 23:11 “No, my lord, hear me: I give you the field, and I give you the cave that is in it. In the sight of the sons of my people I give it to you. Bury your dead.”
Genesis 23:12 Then Abraham bowed down before the people of the land.
Genesis 23:13 And he said to Ephron in the hearing of the people of the land, “But if you will, hear me: I give the price of the field. Accept it from me, that I may bury my dead there.”
Genesis 23:14 Ephron answered Abraham,
Genesis 23:15 “My lord, listen to me: a piece of land worth four hundred  of silver, what is that between you and me? Bury your dead.”
Genesis 23:16 Abraham listened to Ephron, and Abraham weighed out for Ephron the silver that he had named in the hearing of the Hittites, four hundred shekels of silver, according to the weights current among the merchants.
Genesis 23:17 So the field of Ephron in Machpelah, which was to the east of Mamre, the field with the cave that was in it and all the trees that were in the field, throughout its whole area, was made over
Genesis 23:18 to Abraham as a possession in the presence of the Hittites, before all who went in at the gate of his city.
Genesis 23:19 After this, Abraham buried Sarah his wife in the cave of the field of Machpelah east of Mamre (that is, Hebron) in the land of Canaan.
Genesis 23:20 The field and the cave that is in it were made over to Abraham as property for a burying place by the Hittites.
Genesis 24:1 Now Abraham was old, well advanced in years. And the LORD had blessed Abraham in all things.
Genesis 24:2 And Abraham said to his servant, “Put your hand under my thigh,
Genesis 24:3 that I may make you swear by the LORD, the God of heaven and God of the earth, that you will not take a wife for my son from the daughters of the Canaanites, among whom I dwell,
Genesis 24:4  but will go to my country and to my kindred, and take a wife for my son Isaac.”
Genesis 24:5 The servant said to him, “Perhaps the woman may not be willing to follow me to this land. Must I then take your son back to the land from which you came?”
Genesis 24:6 Abraham said to him, “See to it that you do not take my son back there.
Genesis 24:7 The LORD, the God of heaven, he will send his angel before you, and you shall take a wife for my son from there.
Genesis 24:8 But if the woman is not willing to follow you, then you will be free from this oath of mine; only you must not take my son back there.”
Genesis 24:9 So the servant put his hand under the thigh of Abraham his master and swore to him concerning this matter.
Genesis 24:10 Then the servant took ten of his master's camels and departed, taking all sorts of choice gifts from his master; and he arose and went to  to the city of Nahor.
Genesis 24:11 And he made the camels kneel down outside the city by the well of water at the time of evening, the time when women go out to draw water.
Genesis 24:12 And he said, “O LORD, please grant me success today and show steadfast love to my master Abraham.
Genesis 24:13 Behold, I am standing by the spring of water, and the daughters of the men of the city are coming out to draw water.
Genesis 24:14 Let the young woman to whom I shall say, ‘Please let down your jar that I may drink,’ and who shall say, ‘Drink, and I will water your camels’ — let her be the one whom you have appointed for your servant Isaac.  I shall know that you have shown steadfast love to my master.”
Genesis 24:15 Before he had finished speaking, behold, Rebekah, who was born to Bethuel the son of Milcah, the wife of Nahor, Abraham's brother, came out with her water jar on her shoulder.
Genesis 24:16 The young woman  whom no man had known. She went down to the spring and filled her jar and came up.
Genesis 24:17 Then the servant ran to meet her and said, “Please give me a little water to drink from your jar.”
Genesis 24:18 She said, “Drink, my lord.” And she quickly let down her jar upon her hand and gave him a drink.
Genesis 24:19 When she had finished giving him a drink, she said, “I will draw water for your camels also, until they have finished drinking.”
Genesis 24:20 So she quickly emptied her jar into the trough and ran again to the well to draw water, and she drew for all his camels.
Genesis 24:21 The man gazed at her in silence to learn whether the LORD had prospered his journey or not.
Genesis 24:22 When the camels had finished drinking, the man took a gold ring weighing a half shekel,  and two bracelets for her arms weighing ten gold shekels,
Genesis 24:23 and said, “Please tell me whose daughter you are. Is there room in your father's house for us to spend the night?”
Genesis 24:24 She said to him, “I am the daughter of Bethuel the son of Milcah, whom she bore to Nahor.”
Genesis 24:25 She added, “We have plenty of both straw and fodder, and room to spend the night.”
Genesis 24:26  The man bowed his head and worshiped the LORD
Genesis 24:27 and said, “Blessed be the LORD, has led me in the way to the house of my master's kinsmen.”
Genesis 24:28 Then the young woman ran and told her mother's household about these things.
Genesis 24:29 Rebekah had a brother whose name was Laban. Laban ran out toward the man, to the spring.
Genesis 24:30 As soon as he saw the ring and the bracelets on his sister's arms, and heard the words of Rebekah his sister, “Thus the man spoke to me,” he went to the man. And behold, he was standing by the camels at the spring.
Genesis 24:31 He said, “Come in, O blessed of the LORD. Why do you stand outside? For I have prepared the house and a place for the camels.”
Genesis 24:32 So the man came to the house and unharnessed the camels, and gave water to wash his feet and the feet of the men who were with him.
Genesis 24:33 Then food was set before him to eat. But he said, “I will not eat until I have said what I have to say.” He said, “Speak on.”
Genesis 24:34 So he said, “I am Abraham's servant.
Genesis 24:35 The LORD has greatly blessed my master, and he has become great. He has given him flocks and herds, silver and gold, male servants and female servants, camels and donkeys.
Genesis 24:36 And Sarah my master's wife to him he has given all that he has.
Genesis 24:37  My master made me swear, saying, ‘You shall not take a wife for my son from the daughters of the Canaanites, in whose land I dwell,
Genesis 24:38 but you shall go to my father's house and to my clan and take a wife for my son.’
Genesis 24:39 I said to my master, ‘Perhaps the woman will not follow me.’
Genesis 24:40 But he said to me, ‘The LORD, prosper your way. You shall take a wife for my son from my clan and from my father's house.
Genesis 24:41 Then you will be free from my oath, when you come to my clan. And if they will not give her to you, you will be free from my oath.’
Genesis 24:42 “I came today to the spring and said, are prospering the way that I go,
Genesis 24:43 behold, I am standing by the spring of water. Let the virgin who comes out to draw water, to whom I shall say, “Please give me a little water from your jar to drink,”
Genesis 24:44  and who will say to me, “Drink, and I will draw for your camels also,” let her be the woman whom the LORD has appointed for my master's son.’
Genesis 24:45 “Before I had finished speaking in my heart, behold, Rebekah came out with her water jar on her shoulder, and she went down to the spring and drew water. I said to her, ‘Please let me drink.’
Genesis 24:46 She quickly let down her jar from her shoulder and said, ‘Drink, and I will give your camels drink also.’ So I drank, and she gave the camels drink also.
Genesis 24:47 Then I asked her, ‘Whose daughter are you?’ She said, ‘The daughter of Bethuel, Nahor's son, whom Milcah bore to him.’ So I put the ring on her nose and the bracelets on her arms.
Genesis 24:48  the daughter of my master's kinsman for his son.
Genesis 24:49 Now then, if you are going to show steadfast love and faithfulness to my master, tell me; and if not, tell me, that I may turn to the right hand or to the left.”
Genesis 24:50 Then Laban and Bethuel answered and said, “The thing has come from the LORD; we cannot speak to you bad or good.
Genesis 24:51 Behold, Rebekah is before you; take her and go, and let her be the wife of your master's son, as the LORD has spoken.”
Genesis 24:52 When Abraham's servant heard their words, he bowed himself to the earth before the LORD.
Genesis 24:53 And the servant brought out jewelry of silver and of gold, and garments, and gave them to Rebekah. He also gave to her brother and to her mother costly ornaments.
Genesis 24:54 And he and the men who were with him ate and drank, and they spent the night there. When they arose in the morning, he said, “Send me away to my master.”
Genesis 24:55 Her brother and her mother said, “Let the young woman remain with us a while, at least ten days; after that she may go.”
Genesis 24:56 But he said to them, “Do not delay me, since the LORD has prospered my way. Send me away that I may go to my master.”
Genesis 24:57 They said, “Let us call the young woman and ask her.”
Genesis 24:58 And they called Rebekah and said to her, “Will you go with this man?” She said, “I will go.”
Genesis 24:59 So they sent away Rebekah their sister and her nurse, and Abraham's servant and his men.
Genesis 24:60 And they blessed Rebekah and said to her, “Our sister, may you
Genesis 24:61 Then Rebekah and her young women arose and rode on the camels and followed the man. Thus the servant took Rebekah and went his way.
Genesis 24:62 Now Isaac had returned from Beer-lahai-roi and was dwelling in the Negeb.
Genesis 24:63 And Isaac went out to meditate in the field toward evening. And he lifted up his eyes and saw, and behold, there were camels coming.
Genesis 24:64 And Rebekah lifted up her eyes, and when she saw Isaac, she dismounted from the camel
Genesis 24:65 and said to the servant, “Who is that man, walking in the field to meet us?” The servant said, “It is my master.” So she took her veil and covered herself.
Genesis 24:66 And the servant told Isaac all the things that he had done.
Genesis 24:67 Then Isaac brought her into the tent of Sarah his mother and took Rebekah, and she became his wife, and he loved her. So Isaac was death.
Genesis 25:1 Abraham took another wife, whose name was Keturah.
Genesis 25:2  She bore him Zimran, Jokshan, Medan, Midian, Ishbak, and Shuah.
Genesis 25:3 Jokshan fathered Sheba and Dedan. The sons of Dedan were Asshurim, Letushim, and Leummim.
Genesis 25:4 The sons of Midian were Ephah, Epher, Hanoch, Abida, and Eldaah. All these were the children of Keturah.
Genesis 25:5  Abraham gave all he had to Isaac.
Genesis 25:6 But to the sons of his concubines Abraham gave gifts, and while he was still living he to the east country.
Genesis 25:7 These are the days of the years of Abraham's life, 175 years.
Genesis 25:8 Abraham died in a good old age, an old man and full of years, and was gathered to his people.
Genesis 25:9 Isaac and Ishmael his sons buried him in the cave of Machpelah, in the field of Ephron the son of Zohar the Hittite, east of Mamre,
Genesis 25:10 the field There Abraham was buried, with Sarah his wife.
Genesis 25:11 After the death of Abraham, God blessed Isaac his son. And Isaac settled at Beer-lahai-roi.
Genesis 25:12 These are the generations of Ishmael, Abraham's son, whom Hagar the Egyptian, Sarah's servant, bore to Abraham.
Genesis 25:13  Kedar, Adbeel, Mibsam,
Genesis 25:14 Mishma, Dumah, Massa,
Genesis 25:15 Hadad, Naphish, and Kedemah.
Genesis 25:16 These are the sons of Ishmael and these are their names, by their villages and by their encampments, twelve princes according to their tribes.
Genesis 25:17 (These are the years of the life of Ishmael: 137 years. He breathed his last and died, and was gathered to his people.)
Genesis 25:18   over against all his kinsmen.
Genesis 25:19 These are the generations of Isaac, Abraham's son: Abraham fathered Isaac,
Genesis 25:20 and Isaac was forty years old when he took Rebekah, the sister of Laban the Aramean, to be his wife.
Genesis 25:21 And Isaac prayed to the LORD for his wife, because she was barren. And the LORD granted his prayer, and Rebekah his wife conceived.
Genesis 25:22 The children struggled together within her, and she said, “If it is thus, why is this happening to me?” to inquire of the LORD.
Genesis 25:23 And the LORD said to her, the older shall serve the younger.”
Genesis 25:24 When her days to give birth were completed, behold, there were twins in her womb.
Genesis 25:25 The first came out red, all his body like a hairy cloak, so they called his name Esau.
Genesis 25:26 Afterward his brother came out with  Isaac was sixty years old when she bore them.
Genesis 25:27 When the boys grew up, Esau was dwelling in tents.
Genesis 25:28 Isaac loved Esau because he ate of his game, but Rebekah loved Jacob.
Genesis 25:29 Once when Jacob was cooking stew, Esau came in from the field, and he was exhausted.
Genesis 25:30 And Esau said to Jacob, “Let me eat some of that red stew, for I am exhausted!” (Therefore his name was called Edom. )
Genesis 25:31 Jacob said, “Sell me your birthright now.”
Genesis 25:32 Esau said, “I am about to die; of what use is a birthright to me?”
Genesis 25:33 Jacob said, “Swear to me now.” So he swore to him and sold his birthright to Jacob.
Genesis 25:34 Then Jacob gave Esau bread and lentil stew, and he ate and drank and rose and went his way. Thus Esau despised his birthright.
Genesis 26:1 Now there was a famine in the land, besides Philistines.
Genesis 26:2 And the LORD appeared to him and said, “Do not go down to Egypt; dwell in the land of which I shall tell you.
Genesis 26:3  the oath that I swore to Abraham your father.
Genesis 26:4  in your offspring all the nations of the earth shall be blessed,
Genesis 26:5 because Abraham obeyed my voice and kept my charge, my commandments, my statutes, and my laws.”
Genesis 26:6 So Isaac settled in Gerar.
Genesis 26:7 When the men of the place asked him about his wife, she was attractive in appearance.
Genesis 26:8 When he had been there a long time, Abimelech king of the Philistines looked out of a window and saw Isaac laughing with  Rebekah his wife.
Genesis 26:9 So Abimelech called Isaac and said, “Behold, she is your wife. How then could you say, ‘She is my sister’?” Isaac said to him, “Because I thought, ‘Lest I die because of her.’”
Genesis 26:10 Abimelech said, “What is this you have done to us? One of the people might easily have lain with your wife, and you would have brought guilt upon us.”
Genesis 26:11 So Abimelech warned all the people, saying, “Whoever touches this man or his wife shall surely be put to death.”
Genesis 26:12 And Isaac sowed in that land and reaped in the same year a hundredfold. The LORD blessed him,
Genesis 26:13 and the man became rich, and gained more and more until he became very wealthy.
Genesis 26:14 He had possessions of flocks and herds and many servants, so that the Philistines envied him.
Genesis 26:15 (Now the Philistines had stopped and filled with earth all the wells that his father's servants had dug in the days of Abraham his father.)
Genesis 26:16 And Abimelech said to Isaac, “Go away from us, for you are much mightier than we.”
Genesis 26:17 So Isaac departed from there and encamped in the Valley of Gerar and settled there.
Genesis 26:18 And Isaac dug again the wells of water that had been dug in the days of Abraham his father, which the Philistines had stopped after the death of Abraham. And he gave them the names that his father had given them.
Genesis 26:19 But when Isaac's servants dug in the valley and found there a well of spring water,
Genesis 26:20 the herdsmen of Gerar  because they contended with him.
Genesis 26:21 Then they dug another well, and they quarreled over that also, so he called its name Sitnah.
Genesis 26:22 And he moved from there and dug another well, and they did not quarrel over it. So he called its name Rehoboth,  saying, “For now the LORD has made room for us, and we shall be fruitful in the land.”
Genesis 26:23 From there he went up to Beersheba.
Genesis 26:24 And the LORD appeared to him the same night and said, I am with you and will bless you and multiply your offspring for my servant Abraham's sake.”
Genesis 26:25 So he built an altar there and called upon the name of the LORD and pitched his tent there. And there Isaac's servants dug a well.
Genesis 26:26 When Abimelech went to him from Gerar with Ahuzzath his adviser and Phicol the commander of his army,
Genesis 26:27 Isaac said to them, “Why have you come to me, seeing that you hate me and have sent me away from you?”
Genesis 26:28 They said, “We see plainly that the LORD has been with you. So we said, let there be a sworn pact between us, between you and us, and let us make a covenant with you,
Genesis 26:29 that you will do us no harm, just as we have not touched you and have done to you nothing but good and have sent you away in peace. You are now the blessed of the LORD.”
Genesis 26:30 So he made them a feast, and they ate and drank.
Genesis 26:31 In the morning they rose early and exchanged oaths. And Isaac sent them on their way, and they departed from him in peace.
Genesis 26:32 That same day Isaac's servants came and told him about the well that they had dug and said to him, “We have found water.”
Genesis 26:33 He called it Shibah; Beersheba to this day.
Genesis 26:34 When Esau was forty years old, he took Judith the daughter of Beeri the Hittite to be his wife, and Basemath the daughter of Elon the Hittite,
Genesis 26:35 and  for Isaac and Rebekah.
Genesis 27:1 When Isaac was old and his eyes were dim so that he could not see, he called Esau his older son and said to him, “My son”; and he answered, “Here I am.”
Genesis 27:2 He said, “Behold, I am old; I do not know the day of my death.
Genesis 27:3  Now then, take your weapons, your quiver and your bow, and go out to the field and hunt game for me,
Genesis 27:4 and prepare for me delicious food, such as I love, and bring it to me so that I may eat, that my soul may bless you before I die.”
Genesis 27:5 Now Rebekah was listening when Isaac spoke to his son Esau. So when Esau went to the field to hunt for game and bring it,
Genesis 27:6 Rebekah said to her son Jacob, “I heard your father speak to your brother Esau,
Genesis 27:7 ‘Bring me game and prepare for me delicious food, that I may eat it and bless you before the LORD before I die.’
Genesis 27:8 Now therefore, my son, obey my voice as I command you.
Genesis 27:9 Go to the flock and bring me two good young goats, so that I may prepare from them delicious food for your father, such as he loves.
Genesis 27:10 And you shall bring it to your father to eat, so that he may bless you before he dies.”
Genesis 27:11 But Jacob said to Rebekah his mother, “Behold, my brother Esau is a hairy man, and I am a smooth man.
Genesis 27:12 Perhaps my father a curse upon myself and not a blessing.”
Genesis 27:13 His mother said to him, “Let your curse be on me, my son; only obey my voice, and go, bring them to me.”
Genesis 27:14 So he went and took them and brought them to his mother, and his mother prepared delicious food, such as his father loved.
Genesis 27:15 Then Rebekah took the best garments of Esau her older son, which were with her in the house, and put them on Jacob her younger son.
Genesis 27:16 And the skins of the young goats she put on his hands and on the smooth part of his neck.
Genesis 27:17 And she put the delicious food and the bread, which she had prepared, into the hand of her son Jacob.
Genesis 27:18 So he went in to his father and said, “My father.” And he said, “Here I am. Who are you, my son?”
Genesis 27:19 Jacob said to his father, “I am Esau your firstborn. I have done as you told me; now sit up and eat of my game, that your soul may bless me.”
Genesis 27:20 But Isaac said to his son, “How is it that you have found it so quickly, my son?” He answered, “Because the LORD your God granted me success.”
Genesis 27:21 Then Isaac said to Jacob, “Please come near, that I may feel you, my son, to know whether you are really my son Esau or not.”
Genesis 27:22 So Jacob went near to Isaac his father, who felt him and said, “The voice is Jacob's voice, but the hands are the hands of Esau.”
Genesis 27:23 And he did not recognize him, because So he blessed him.
Genesis 27:24 He said, “Are you really my son Esau?” He answered, “I am.”
Genesis 27:25 Then he said, “Bring it near to me, that I may eat of my son's game and bless you.” So he brought it near to him, and he ate; and he brought him wine, and he drank.
Genesis 27:26 Then his father Isaac said to him, “Come near and kiss me, my son.”
Genesis 27:27 So he came near and kissed him. And Isaac smelled the smell of his garments the smell of my son is as the smell of a field that the LORD has blessed!
Genesis 27:28 May God give you of plenty of grain and wine.
Genesis 27:29 Let peoples serve you, and nationsCursed be everyone who curses you, and blessed be everyone who blesses you!”
Genesis 27:30 As soon as Isaac had finished blessing Jacob, when Jacob had scarcely gone out from the presence of Isaac his father, Esau his brother came in from his hunting.
Genesis 27:31 He also prepared delicious food and brought it to his father. And he said to his father, “Let my father arise and eat of his son's game, that you may bless me.”
Genesis 27:32 His father Isaac said to him, “Who are you?” He answered, “I am your son, your firstborn, Esau.”
Genesis 27:33 Then Isaac trembled very violently and said, “Who was it then that hunted game and brought it to me, and I ate it all before you came, and I have blessed him? Yes, and he shall be blessed.”
Genesis 27:34 As soon as Esau heard the words of his father, he cried out with an exceedingly great and bitter cry and said to his father, “Bless me, even me also, O my father!”
Genesis 27:35 But he said, “Your brother came deceitfully, and he has taken away your blessing.”
Genesis 27:36 Esau said, He took away my birthright, and behold, now he has taken away my blessing.” Then he said, “Have you not reserved a blessing for me?”
Genesis 27:37 Isaac answered and said to Esau, “Behold, with grain and wine I have sustained him. What then can I do for you, my son?”
Genesis 27:38 Esau said to his father, “Have you but one blessing, my father? Bless me, even me also, O my father.” And Esau lifted up his voice and wept.
Genesis 27:39 Then Isaac his father answered and said to him: “Behold,  the dew of heaven on high.
Genesis 27:40 By your sword you shall live, and youyou shall break his yoke from your neck.”
Genesis 27:41 Now Esau then I will kill my brother Jacob.”
Genesis 27:42 But the words of Esau her older son were told to Rebekah. So she sent and called Jacob her younger son and said to him, “Behold, your brother Esau comforts himself about you by planning to kill you.
Genesis 27:43 Now therefore, my son, obey my voice. Arise, flee to Laban my brother in Haran
Genesis 27:44 and stay with him a while, until your brother's fury turns away —
Genesis 27:45 until your brother's anger turns away from you, and he forgets what you have done to him. Then I will send and bring you from there. Why should I be bereft of you both in one day?”
Genesis 27:46 Then Rebekah said to Isaac, If Jacob marries one of the Hittite women like these, one of the women of the land, what good will my life be to me?”
Genesis 28:1 Then Isaac called Jacob “You must not take a wife from the Canaanite women.
Genesis 28:2  Bethuel your mother's father, and take as your wife from there one of the daughters of Laban your mother's brother.
Genesis 28:3   bless you and make you fruitful and multiply you, that you may become a company of peoples.
Genesis 28:4 May he give the land of your sojournings that God gave to Abraham!”
Genesis 28:5 Thus Isaac sent Jacob away. And he went to Paddan-aram, to Laban, the son of Bethuel the Aramean, the brother of Rebekah, Jacob's and Esau's mother.
Genesis 28:6 Now Esau saw that Isaac had blessed Jacob and sent him away to Paddan-aram to take a wife from there, and that as he blessed him he directed him, “You must not take a wife from the Canaanite women,”
Genesis 28:7 and that Jacob had obeyed his father and his mother and gone to Paddan-aram.
Genesis 28:8 So when Esau saw that the Canaanite women did not please Isaac his father,
Genesis 28:9 Esau went to Ishmael and took as his wife, besides the wives he had, Nebaioth.
Genesis 28:10 Jacob left Haran.
Genesis 28:11 And he came to a certain place and stayed there that night, because the sun had set. Taking one of the stones of the place, he put it under his head and lay down in that place to sleep.
Genesis 28:12 And he the angels of God were ascending and descending on it!
Genesis 28:13 And behold, The land on which you lie I will give to you and to your offspring.
Genesis 28:14 Your offspring shall be like your offspring shall all the families of the earth be blessed.
Genesis 28:15 Behold, not leave you until I have done what I have promised you.”
Genesis 28:16 Then Jacob awoke from his sleep and said, “Surely the LORD is in this place, and I did not know it.”
Genesis 28:17 And he was afraid and said, “How awesome is this place! This is none other than the house of God, and this is the gate of heaven.”
Genesis 28:18 So early in the morning Jacob took the stone that he had put under his head and set it up and poured oil on the top of it.
Genesis 28:19 He called the name of that place  but the name of the city was Luz at the first.
Genesis 28:20 Then Jacob made a vow, saying, “If God will be with me and will keep me in this way that I go, and will give me bread to eat and clothing to wear,
Genesis 28:21  then the LORD shall be my God,
Genesis 28:22 and this stone, which I have set up for a pillar, of all that you give me I will give a full tenth to you.”
Genesis 29:1 Then Jacob went on his journey and came to the land of the people of the east.
Genesis 29:2 As he looked, he saw a well in the field, and behold, three flocks of sheep lying beside it, for out of that well the flocks were watered. The stone on the well's mouth was large,
Genesis 29:3 and when all the flocks were gathered there, the shepherds would roll the stone from the mouth of the well and water the sheep, and put the stone back in its place over the mouth of the well.
Genesis 29:4 Jacob said to them, “My brothers, where do you come from?” They said, “We are from Haran.”
Genesis 29:5 He said to them, “Do you know Laban the son of Nahor?” They said, “We know him.”
Genesis 29:6 He said to them, “Is it well with him?” They said, “It is well; and see, Rachel his daughter is coming with the sheep!”
Genesis 29:7 He said, “Behold, it is still high day; it is not time for the livestock to be gathered together. Water the sheep and go, pasture them.”
Genesis 29:8 But they said, “We cannot until all the flocks are gathered together and the stone is rolled from the mouth of the well; then we water the sheep.”
Genesis 29:9 While he was still speaking with them, Rachel came with her father's sheep, for she was a shepherdess.
Genesis 29:10 Now as soon as Jacob saw Rachel the daughter of Laban his mother's brother, and the sheep of Laban his mother's brother, Jacob came near and rolled the stone from the well's mouth and watered the flock of Laban his mother's brother.
Genesis 29:11 Then Jacob kissed Rachel and wept aloud.
Genesis 29:12 And Jacob told Rachel that he was and she ran and told her father.
Genesis 29:13 As soon as Laban heard the news about Jacob, his sister's son, he ran to meet him and embraced him and kissed him and brought him to his house. Jacob told Laban all these things,
Genesis 29:14 and Laban said to him, “Surely you are my bone and my flesh!” And he stayed with him a month.
Genesis 29:15 Then Laban said to Jacob, “Because you are my kinsman, should you therefore serve me for nothing? Tell me, what shall your wages be?”
Genesis 29:16 Now Laban had two daughters. The name of the older was Leah, and the name of the younger was Rachel.
Genesis 29:17 Leah's eyes were weak,  but Rachel was beautiful in form and appearance.
Genesis 29:18 Jacob loved Rachel. And he said, “I will serve you seven years for your younger daughter Rachel.”
Genesis 29:19 Laban said, “It is better that I give her to you than that I should give her to any other man; stay with me.”
Genesis 29:20 So Jacob served seven years for Rachel, and they seemed to him but a few days because of the love he had for her.
Genesis 29:21 Then Jacob said to Laban, “Give me my wife that I may go in to her, for my time is completed.”
Genesis 29:22 So Laban gathered together all the people of the place and made a feast.
Genesis 29:23 But in the evening he took his daughter Leah and brought her to Jacob, and he went in to her.
Genesis 29:24 (Laban gave his female servant Zilpah to his daughter Leah to be her servant.)
Genesis 29:25 And in the morning, behold, it was Leah! And Jacob said to Laban, “What is this you have done to me? Did I not serve with you for Rachel? Why then have you deceived me?”
Genesis 29:26 Laban said, “It is not so done in our country, to give the younger before the firstborn.
Genesis 29:27  Complete the week of this one, and we will give you the other also in return for serving me another seven years.”
Genesis 29:28 Jacob did so, and completed her week. Then Laban gave him his daughter Rachel to be his wife.
Genesis 29:29 (Laban gave his female servant Bilhah to his daughter Rachel to be her servant.)
Genesis 29:30 So Jacob went in to Rachel also, and he loved Rachel more than Leah, and served Laban for another seven years.
Genesis 29:31 When the LORD saw that Leah was he opened her womb, but Rachel was barren.
Genesis 29:32 And Leah conceived and bore a son, and she called his name Reuben, has looked upon my affliction; for now my husband will love me.”
Genesis 29:33 She conceived again and bore a son, and said, “Because the LORD has heard that I am hated, he has given me this son also.” And she called his name Simeon.
Genesis 29:34 Again she conceived and bore a son, and said, “Now this time my husband will be
Genesis 29:35 And she conceived again and bore a son, and said, “This time I will praise the LORD.” Therefore she called his name  Then she ceased bearing.
Genesis 30:1 When Rachel saw that she bore Jacob no children, she envied her sister. She said to Jacob, “Give me children, or I shall die!”
Genesis 30:2 Jacob's anger was kindled against Rachel, and he said, “Am I in the place of God, who has withheld from you the fruit of the womb?”
Genesis 30:3 Then she said, “Here is my servant  through her.”
Genesis 30:4 So she gave him her servant Bilhah as a wife, and Jacob went in to her.
Genesis 30:5 And Bilhah conceived and bore Jacob a son.
Genesis 30:6 Then Rachel said, “God has
Genesis 30:7 Rachel's servant Bilhah conceived again and bore Jacob a second son.
Genesis 30:8 Then Rachel said, “With mighty wrestlings
Genesis 30:9 When Leah saw that she had ceased bearing children, she took her servant Zilpah and gave her to Jacob as a wife.
Genesis 30:10 Then Leah's servant Zilpah bore Jacob a son.
Genesis 30:11 And Leah said,
Genesis 30:12 Leah's servant Zilpah bore Jacob a second son.
Genesis 30:13 And Leah said, “Happy am I! For women
Genesis 30:14 In the days of wheat harvest Reuben went and found mandrakes in the field and brought them to his mother Leah. Then Rachel said to Leah, “Please give me some of your son's mandrakes.”
Genesis 30:15 But she said to her, “Is it a small matter that you have taken away my husband? Would you take away my son's mandrakes also?” Rachel said, “Then he may lie with you tonight in exchange for your son's mandrakes.”
Genesis 30:16 When Jacob came from the field in the evening, Leah went out to meet him and said, “You must come in to me, for I have hired you with my son's mandrakes.” So he lay with her that night.
Genesis 30:17 And God listened to Leah, and she conceived and bore Jacob a fifth son.
Genesis 30:18 Leah said, “God has given me my wages because I gave my servant to my husband.” So she called his name Issachar.
Genesis 30:19 And Leah conceived again, and she bore Jacob a sixth son.
Genesis 30:20 Then Leah said, “God has endowed me with a good endowment; now my husband will honor me, because I have borne him six sons.” So she called his name
Genesis 30:21 Afterward she bore a daughter and called her name Dinah.
Genesis 30:22 Then God opened her womb.
Genesis 30:23 She conceived and bore a son and said, “God has taken away my reproach.”
Genesis 30:24 And she called his name Joseph, “May the LORD add to me another son!”
Genesis 30:25 As soon as Rachel had borne Joseph, Jacob said to Laban, “Send me away, that I may go to my own home and country.
Genesis 30:26 Give me my wives and my children for whom I have served you, that I may go, for you know the service that I have given you.”
Genesis 30:27 But Laban said to him, “If I have found favor in your sight, I have learned by divination that  the LORD has blessed me because of you.
Genesis 30:28  Name your wages, and I will give it.”
Genesis 30:29 Jacob said to him, “You yourself know how I have served you, and how your livestock has fared with me.
Genesis 30:30 For you had little before I came, provide for my own household also?”
Genesis 30:31 He said, “What shall I give you?” Jacob said, “You shall not give me anything. If you will do this for me, I will again pasture your flock and keep it:
Genesis 30:32 let me pass through all your flock today, removing from it every speckled and spotted sheep and every black lamb, and the spotted and speckled among the goats, and they shall be my wages.
Genesis 30:33 So my honesty will answer for me later, when you come to look into my wages with you. Every one that is not speckled and spotted among the goats and black among the lambs, if found with me, shall be counted stolen.”
Genesis 30:34 Laban said, “Good! Let it be as you have said.”
Genesis 30:35 But that day Laban removed the male goats that were striped and spotted, and all the female goats that were speckled and spotted, every one that had white on it, and every lamb that was black, and put them in the charge of his sons.
Genesis 30:36 And he set a distance of three days' journey between himself and Jacob, and Jacob pastured the rest of Laban's flock.
Genesis 30:37 Then Jacob took fresh sticks of poplar and almond and plane trees, and peeled white streaks in them, exposing the white of the sticks.
Genesis 30:38 He set the sticks that he had peeled in front of the flocks in the troughs, that is, the watering places, where the flocks came to drink. And since they bred when they came to drink,
Genesis 30:39 the flocks bred in front of the sticks and so the flocks brought forth striped, speckled, and spotted.
Genesis 30:40 And Jacob separated the lambs and set the faces of the flocks toward the striped and all the black in the flock of Laban. He put his own droves apart and did not put them with Laban's flock.
Genesis 30:41 Whenever the stronger of the flock were breeding, Jacob would lay the sticks in the troughs before the eyes of the flock, that they might breed among the sticks,
Genesis 30:42 but for the feebler of the flock he would not lay them there. So the feebler would be Laban's, and the stronger Jacob's.
Genesis 30:43 Thus the man had large flocks, female servants and male servants, and camels and donkeys.
Genesis 31:1 Now Jacob heard that the sons of Laban were saying, “Jacob has taken all that was our father's, and from what was our father's he has gained all this wealth.”
Genesis 31:2 And Jacob saw that Laban did not regard him with favor as before.
Genesis 31:3 Then the LORD said to Jacob, “Return to the land of your fathers and to your kindred, and I will be with you.”
Genesis 31:4 So Jacob sent and called Rachel and Leah into the field where his flock was
Genesis 31:5 and said to them, has been with me.
Genesis 31:6  You know that I have served your father with all my strength,
Genesis 31:7 yet your father has cheated me and changed my wages ten times. But God did not permit him to harm me.
Genesis 31:8 If he said, ‘The spotted shall be your wages,’ then all the flock bore spotted; and if he said, ‘The striped shall be your wages,’ then all the flock bore striped.
Genesis 31:9 Thus God has taken away the livestock of your father and given them to me.
Genesis 31:10 In the breeding season of the flock I lifted up my eyes and saw in a dream that the goats that mated with the flock were striped, spotted, and mottled.
Genesis 31:11 Then the angel of God said to me in the dream, ‘Jacob,’ and I said, ‘Here I am!’
Genesis 31:12 And he said, ‘Lift up your eyes and see, all the goats that mate with the flock are striped, spotted, and mottled, for I have seen all that Laban is doing to you.
Genesis 31:13 I am the God of Bethel, arise, go out from this land and return to the land of your kindred.’”
Genesis 31:14 Then Rachel and Leah answered and said to him, “Is there any portion or inheritance left to us in our father's house?
Genesis 31:15 Are we not regarded by him as foreigners? For he has sold us, and he has indeed devoured our money.
Genesis 31:16 All the wealth that God has taken away from our father belongs to us and to our children. Now then, whatever God has said to you, do.”
Genesis 31:17 So Jacob arose and set his sons and his wives on camels.
Genesis 31:18 He drove away all his livestock, all his property that he had gained, the livestock in his possession that he had acquired in Paddan-aram, to go to the land of Canaan to his father Isaac.
Genesis 31:19 Laban had gone to shear his sheep, and Rachel stole her father's household gods.
Genesis 31:20 And Jacob tricked  Laban the Aramean, by not telling him that he intended to flee.
Genesis 31:21 He fled with all that he had and arose and crossed the set his face toward the hill country of Gilead.
Genesis 31:22 When it was told Laban on the third day that Jacob had fled,
Genesis 31:23 he took his kinsmen with him and pursued him for seven days and followed close after him into the hill country of Gilead.
Genesis 31:24 But God came to Laban the Aramean either good or bad.”
Genesis 31:25 And Laban overtook Jacob. Now Jacob had pitched his tent in the hill country, and Laban with his kinsmen pitched tents in the hill country of Gilead.
Genesis 31:26 And Laban said to Jacob, “What have you done, that you have tricked me and driven away my daughters like captives of the sword?
Genesis 31:27 Why did you flee secretly and trick me, and did not tell me, so that I might have sent you away with mirth and songs, with tambourine and lyre?
Genesis 31:28 And why did you not permit me to kiss my sons and my daughters farewell? Now you have done foolishly.
Genesis 31:29 It is either good or bad.’
Genesis 31:30 And now you have gone away because you longed greatly for your father's house, but why did you steal my gods?”
Genesis 31:31 Jacob answered and said to Laban, “Because I was afraid, for I thought that you would take your daughters from me by force.
Genesis 31:32  Anyone with whom you find your gods shall not live. In the presence of our kinsmen point out what I have that is yours, and take it.” Now Jacob did not know that Rachel had stolen them.
Genesis 31:33 So Laban went into Jacob's tent and into Leah's tent and into the tent of the two female servants, but he did not find them. And he went out of Leah's tent and entered Rachel's.
Genesis 31:34 Now Rachel had taken the household gods and put them in the camel's saddle and sat on them. Laban felt all about the tent, but did not find them.
Genesis 31:35 And she said to her father, “Let not my lord be angry that I cannot rise before you, for the way of women is upon me.” So he searched but did not find the household gods.
Genesis 31:36 Then Jacob became angry and berated Laban. Jacob said to Laban, “What is my offense? What is my sin, that you have hotly pursued me?
Genesis 31:37 For you have felt through all my goods; what have you found of all your household goods? Set it here before my kinsmen and your kinsmen, that they may decide between us two.
Genesis 31:38 These twenty years I have been with you. Your ewes and your female goats have not miscarried, and I have not eaten the rams of your flocks.
Genesis 31:39 What was torn by wild beasts I did not bring to you. I bore the loss of it myself. From my hand you required it, whether stolen by day or stolen by night.
Genesis 31:40 There I was: by day the heat consumed me, and the cold by night, and my sleep fled from my eyes.
Genesis 31:41 These twenty years I have been in your house. you have changed my wages ten times.
Genesis 31:42  rebuked you last night.”
Genesis 31:43 Then Laban answered and said to Jacob, “The daughters are my daughters, the children are my children, the flocks are my flocks, and all that you see is mine. But what can I do this day for these my daughters or for their children whom they have borne?
Genesis 31:44 Come now, And let it be a witness between you and me.”
Genesis 31:45 So Jacob took a stone and set it up as a pillar.
Genesis 31:46 And Jacob said to his kinsmen, “Gather stones.” And they took stones and made a heap, and they ate there by the heap.
Genesis 31:47 Laban called it Jegar-sahadutha,
Genesis 31:48 Laban said, “This heap is a witness between you and me today.” Therefore he named it Galeed,
Genesis 31:49   for he said, “The LORD watch between you and me, when we are out of one another's sight.
Genesis 31:50 If you oppress my daughters, or if you take wives besides my daughters, although no one is with us, see, God is witness between you and me.”
Genesis 31:51 Then Laban said to Jacob, “See this heap and the pillar, which I have set between you and me.
Genesis 31:52  This heap is a witness, and the pillar is a witness, that I will not pass over this heap to you, and you will not pass over this heap and this pillar to me, to do harm.
Genesis 31:53 The God of Abraham and the God of Nahor, the God of their father, judge between us.” So Jacob swore by the Fear of his father Isaac,
Genesis 31:54 and Jacob offered a sacrifice in the hill country and called his kinsmen to eat bread. They ate bread and spent the night in the hill country.
Genesis 31:55  his grandchildren and his daughters and blessed them. Then Laban departed and returned home.
Genesis 32:1 Jacob went on his way, and the angels of God met him.
Genesis 32:2 And when Jacob saw them he said, “This is God's
Genesis 32:3 And Jacob sent Seir, the country of Edom,
Genesis 32:4 instructing them, “Thus you shall say to my lord Esau: Thus says your servant Jacob, ‘I have sojourned with Laban and stayed until now.
Genesis 32:5 I have oxen, donkeys, flocks, male servants, and female servants. I have sent to tell my lord, in order that I may find favor in your sight.’”
Genesis 32:6 And the messengers returned to Jacob, saying, “We came to your brother Esau, and he is coming to meet you, and there are four hundred men with him.”
Genesis 32:7 Then Jacob was greatly afraid and distressed. He divided the people who were with him, and the flocks and herds and camels, into two camps,
Genesis 32:8 thinking, “If Esau comes to the one camp and attacks it, then the camp that is left will escape.”
Genesis 32:9 And Jacob said, said to me, ‘Return to your country and to your kindred, that I may do you good,’
Genesis 32:10  I am not worthy of the least of all the deeds of steadfast love and all the faithfulness that you have shown to your servant, for with only my staff I crossed this Jordan, and now I have become two camps.
Genesis 32:11 Please deliver me from the hand of my brother, from the hand of Esau, for I fear him, that he may come and attack me, the mothers with the children.
Genesis 32:12 But you said, ‘I will surely do you good, and make your offspring as the sand of the sea, which cannot be numbered for multitude.’”
Genesis 32:13 So he stayed there that night, and from what he had with him he took a present for his brother Esau,
Genesis 32:14 two hundred female goats and twenty male goats, two hundred ewes and twenty rams,
Genesis 32:15 thirty milking camels and their calves, forty cows and ten bulls, twenty female donkeys and ten male donkeys.
Genesis 32:16 These he handed over to his servants, every drove by itself, and said to his servants, “Pass on ahead of me and put a space between drove and drove.”
Genesis 32:17 He instructed the first, “When Esau my brother meets you and asks you, ‘To whom do you belong? Where are you going? And whose are these ahead of you?’
Genesis 32:18 then you shall say, ‘They belong to your servant Jacob. They are a present sent to my lord Esau. And moreover, he is behind us.’”
Genesis 32:19 He likewise instructed the second and the third and all who followed the droves, “You shall say the same thing to Esau when you find him,
Genesis 32:20 and you shall say, ‘Moreover, your servant Jacob is behind us.’” For he thought, “I may appease him
Genesis 32:21 So the present passed on ahead of him, and he himself stayed that night in the camp.
Genesis 32:22 The same night he arose and took his two wives, his two female servants, and his eleven children, Jabbok.
Genesis 32:23 He took them and sent them across the stream, and everything else that he had.
Genesis 32:24 And Jacob was left alone. And a man wrestled with him until the breaking of the day.
Genesis 32:25 When the man saw that he did not prevail against Jacob, he touched his hip socket, and Jacob's hip was put out of joint as he wrestled with him.
Genesis 32:26 Then he said, “Let me go, for the day has broken.” But Jacob said, “I will not let you go unless you bless me.”
Genesis 32:27 And he said to him, “What is your name?” And he said, “Jacob.”
Genesis 32:28 Then he said, with men, and have prevailed.”
Genesis 32:29 Then Jacob asked him, “Please tell me your name.” But he said, “Why is it that you ask my name?” And there he blessed him.
Genesis 32:30 So Jacob called the name of the place Peniel, I have seen God face to face, and yet my life has been delivered.”
Genesis 32:31 The sun rose upon him as he passed Penuel, limping because of his hip.
Genesis 32:32 Therefore to this day the people of Israel do not eat the sinew of the thigh that is on the hip socket, because he touched the socket of Jacob's hip on the sinew of the thigh.
Genesis 33:1 And Jacob lifted up his eyes and looked, and behold, Esau was coming, and four hundred men with him. So he divided the children among Leah and Rachel and the two female servants.
Genesis 33:2 And he put the servants with their children in front, then Leah with her children, and Rachel and Joseph last of all.
Genesis 33:3 He himself went on before them, bowing himself to the ground seven times, until he came near to his brother.
Genesis 33:4  and fell on his neck and kissed him, and they wept.
Genesis 33:5 And when Esau lifted up his eyes and saw the women and children, he said, “Who are these with you?” Jacob said, “The children whom God has graciously given your servant.”
Genesis 33:6 Then the servants drew near, they and their children, and bowed down.
Genesis 33:7 Leah likewise and her children drew near and bowed down. And last Joseph and Rachel drew near, and they bowed down.
Genesis 33:8 Esau said, “What do you mean by “To find favor in the sight of my lord.”
Genesis 33:9 But Esau said, “I have enough, my brother; keep what you have for yourself.”
Genesis 33:10 Jacob said, “No, please, if I have found favor in your sight, then accept my present from my hand. For I have seen your face, which is like seeing the face of God, and you have accepted me.
Genesis 33:11 Please accept my urged him, and he took it.
Genesis 33:12 Then Esau said, “Let us journey on our way, and I will go ahead of  you.”
Genesis 33:13 But Jacob said to him, “My lord knows that the children are frail, and that the nursing flocks and herds are a care to me. If they are driven hard for one day, all the flocks will die.
Genesis 33:14 Let my lord pass on ahead of his servant, and I will lead on slowly, at the pace of the livestock that are ahead of me and at the pace of the children, until I come to my lord in Seir.”
Genesis 33:15 So Esau said, “Let me leave with you some of the people who are with me.” But he said, “What need is there? Let me find favor in the sight of my lord.”
Genesis 33:16 So Esau returned that day on his way to Seir.
Genesis 33:17 But Jacob journeyed to
Genesis 33:18 And Jacob came safely Shechem, which is in the land of Canaan, on his way from Paddan-aram, and he camped before the city.
Genesis 33:19 And from the sons of  the piece of land on which he had pitched his tent.
Genesis 33:20 There he erected an altar and called it El-Elohe-Israel.
Genesis 34:1 Now Dinah the daughter of Leah, whom she had borne to Jacob, went out to see the women of the land.
Genesis 34:2 And when Shechem the son of Hamor the Hivite, the prince of the land, saw her, he seized her and lay with her and humiliated her.
Genesis 34:3 And his soul was drawn to Dinah the daughter of Jacob. He loved the young woman and spoke tenderly to her.
Genesis 34:4 So Shechem spoke to his father Hamor, saying, “Get me this girl for my wife.”
Genesis 34:5 Now Jacob heard that he had defiled his daughter Dinah. But his sons were with his livestock in the field, so Jacob held his peace until they came.
Genesis 34:6 And Hamor the father of Shechem went out to Jacob to speak with him.
Genesis 34:7 The sons of Jacob had come in from the field as soon as they heard of it, and the men were indignant and for such a thing must not be done.
Genesis 34:8 But Hamor spoke with them, saying, “The soul of my son Shechem longs for your  daughter. Please give her to him to be his wife.
Genesis 34:9 Make marriages with us. Give your daughters to us, and take our daughters for yourselves.
Genesis 34:10 You shall dwell with us, and get property in it.”
Genesis 34:11 Shechem also said to her father and to her brothers, “Let me find favor in your eyes, and whatever you say to me I will give.
Genesis 34:12 Ask me for as great a  and gift as you will, and I will give whatever you say to me. Only give me the young woman to be my wife.”
Genesis 34:13 The sons of Jacob answered Shechem and his father Hamor deceitfully, because he had defiled their sister Dinah.
Genesis 34:14 They said to them, “We cannot do this thing, to give our sister to one who is uncircumcised, for that would be a disgrace to us.
Genesis 34:15 Only on this condition will we agree with you — that you will become as we are by every male among you being circumcised.
Genesis 34:16 Then we will give our daughters to you, and we will take your daughters to ourselves, and we will dwell with you and become one people.
Genesis 34:17 But if you will not listen to us and be circumcised, then we will take our daughter, and we will be gone.”
Genesis 34:18 Their words pleased Hamor and Hamor's son Shechem.
Genesis 34:19 And the young man did not delay to do the thing, because he delighted in Jacob's daughter. Now he was the most honored of all his father's house.
Genesis 34:20 So Hamor and his son Shechem came to the gate of their city and spoke to the men of their city, saying,
Genesis 34:21 “These men are at peace with us; let them dwell in the land and trade in it, for behold, the land is large enough for them. Let us take their daughters as wives, and let us give them our daughters.
Genesis 34:22 Only on this condition will the men agree to dwell with us to become one people — when every male among us is circumcised as they are circumcised.
Genesis 34:23 Will not their livestock, their property and all their beasts be ours? Only let us agree with them, and they will dwell with us.”
Genesis 34:24 And all who went out of the gate of his city listened to Hamor and his son Shechem, and every male was circumcised, all who went out of the gate of his city.
Genesis 34:25 On the third day, when they were sore, two of the sons of Jacob, Dinah's brothers, took their swords and came against the city while it felt secure and killed all the males.
Genesis 34:26 They killed Hamor and his son Shechem with the sword and took Dinah out of Shechem's house and went away.
Genesis 34:27 The sons of Jacob came upon the slain and plundered the city, because they had defiled their sister.
Genesis 34:28 They took their flocks and their herds, their donkeys, and whatever was in the city and in the field.
Genesis 34:29 All their wealth, all their little ones and their wives, all that was in the houses, they captured and plundered.
Genesis 34:30 Then Jacob said to Simeon and Levi, My numbers are few, and if they gather themselves against me and attack me, I shall be destroyed, both I and my household.”
Genesis 34:31 But they said, “Should he treat our sister like a prostitute?”
Genesis 35:1 God said to Jacob, “Arise, go up to when you fled from your brother Esau.”
Genesis 35:2 So Jacob said to his purify yourselves and change your garments.
Genesis 35:3 Then let us arise and go up to Bethel, so that I may make there an altar to the God has been with me wherever I have gone.”
Genesis 35:4 So they gave to Jacob all the foreign gods that they had, and the rings that were in their ears. Jacob hid them under the terebinth tree that was near Shechem.
Genesis 35:5 And as they journeyed, a terror from God fell upon the cities that were around them, so that they did not pursue the sons of Jacob.
Genesis 35:6 And Jacob came to Luz (that is, Bethel), which is in the land of Canaan, he and all the people who were with him,
Genesis 35:7 and there he built an altar and called the place El-bethel, there God had revealed himself to him when he fled from his brother.
Genesis 35:8 And
Genesis 35:9 God appeared  to Jacob again, when he came from Paddan-aram, and blessed him.
Genesis 35:10 And God said to him, “Your name is Jacob; Israel shall be your name.” So he called his name Israel.
Genesis 35:11 And God said to him,
Genesis 35:12  The land that I gave to Abraham and Isaac I will give to you, and I will give the land to your offspring after you.”
Genesis 35:13 Then God went up from him in the place where he had spoken with him.
Genesis 35:14 And Jacob set up a pillar in the place where he had spoken with him, a pillar of stone. He poured out a drink offering on it and poured oil on it.
Genesis 35:15 So Jacob called the name of the place where God had spoken with him Bethel.
Genesis 35:16 Then they journeyed from Bethel. When they were still some distance  from Ephrath, Rachel went into labor, and she had hard labor.
Genesis 35:17 And when her labor was at its hardest, the midwife said to her, “Do not fear, for you have another son.”
Genesis 35:18 And as her soul was departing (for she was dying), she called his name Ben-oni;
Genesis 35:19 So Ephrath (that is, Bethlehem),
Genesis 35:20 and Jacob set up a pillar over her tomb. It is the pillar of Rachel's tomb, which is there to this day.
Genesis 35:21 Israel journeyed on and pitched his tent beyond the tower of Eder.
Genesis 35:22 While Israel lived in that land, Reuben went and lay with Bilhah his father's concubine. And Israel heard of it. Now the sons of Jacob were twelve.
Genesis 35:23 The sons of Leah: Reuben (Jacob's firstborn), Simeon, Levi, Judah, Issachar, and Zebulun.
Genesis 35:24 The sons of Rachel: Joseph and Benjamin.
Genesis 35:25 The sons of Bilhah, Rachel's servant: Dan and Naphtali.
Genesis 35:26 The sons of Zilpah, Leah's servant: Gad and Asher. These were the sons of Jacob who were born to him in Paddan-aram.
Genesis 35:27 And Jacob came to his father Isaac at Kiriath-arba (that is, Hebron), where Abraham and Isaac had sojourned.
Genesis 35:28 Now the days of Isaac were 180 years.
Genesis 35:29 And Isaac breathed his last, and he died his sons Esau and Jacob buried him.
Genesis 36:1 These are the generations of Esau (that is, Edom).
Genesis 36:2 Esau  of Zibeon the Hivite,
Genesis 36:3 and Basemath, Ishmael's daughter, the sister of Nebaioth.
Genesis 36:4 And Adah bore to Esau, Eliphaz; Basemath bore Reuel;
Genesis 36:5 and Oholibamah bore Jeush, Jalam, and Korah. These are the sons of Esau who were born to him in the land of Canaan.
Genesis 36:6 Then Esau took his wives, his sons, his daughters, and all the members of his household, his livestock, all his beasts, and all his property that he had acquired in the land of Canaan. He went into a land away from his brother Jacob.
Genesis 36:7  The land of their sojournings could not support them because of their livestock.
Genesis 36:8 So Esau settled inEsau is Edom.)
Genesis 36:9 These are the generations of Esau the father of the Edomites in the hill country of Seir.
Genesis 36:10 These are the names of Esau's sons: Eliphaz the son of Adah the wife of Esau, Reuel the son of Basemath the wife of Esau.
Genesis 36:11 The sons of Eliphaz were Teman, Omar, Zepho, Gatam, and Kenaz.
Genesis 36:12 (Timna was a concubine of Eliphaz, Esau's son; she bore Amalek to Eliphaz.) These are the sons of Adah, Esau's wife.
Genesis 36:13 These are the sons of Reuel: Nahath, Zerah, Shammah, and Mizzah. These are the sons of Basemath, Esau's wife.
Genesis 36:14 These are the sons of Oholibamah the daughter of Anah the daughter of Zibeon, Esau's wife: she bore to Esau Jeush, Jalam, and Korah.
Genesis 36:15 These are The sons of Eliphaz the firstborn of Esau: the chiefs Teman, Omar, Zepho, Kenaz,
Genesis 36:16 Korah, Gatam, and Amalek; these are the chiefs of Eliphaz in the land of Edom; these are the sons of Adah.
Genesis 36:17 These are the sons of Reuel, Esau's son: the chiefs Nahath, Zerah, Shammah, and Mizzah; these are the chiefs of Reuel in the land of Edom; these are the sons of Basemath, Esau's wife.
Genesis 36:18 These are the sons of Oholibamah, Esau's wife: the chiefs Jeush, Jalam, and Korah; these are the chiefs born of Oholibamah the daughter of Anah, Esau's wife.
Genesis 36:19 These are the sons of Esau (that is, Edom), and these are their chiefs.
Genesis 36:20  Seir the Horite, the inhabitants of the land: Lotan, Shobal, Zibeon, Anah,
Genesis 36:21 Dishon, Ezer, and Dishan; these are the chiefs of the Horites, the sons of Seir in the land of Edom.
Genesis 36:22 The sons of Lotan were Hori and Hemam; and Lotan's sister was Timna.
Genesis 36:23 These are the sons of Shobal: Alvan, Manahath, Ebal, Shepho, and Onam.
Genesis 36:24 These are the sons of Zibeon: Aiah and Anah; he is the Anah who found the hot springs in the wilderness, as he pastured the donkeys of Zibeon his father.
Genesis 36:25 These are the children of Anah: Dishon and Oholibamah the daughter of Anah.
Genesis 36:26 These are the sons of Dishon: Hemdan, Eshban, Ithran, and Cheran.
Genesis 36:27 These are the sons of Ezer: Bilhan, Zaavan, and Akan.
Genesis 36:28 These are the sons of Dishan: Uz and Aran.
Genesis 36:29 These are the chiefs of the Horites: the chiefs Lotan, Shobal, Zibeon, Anah,
Genesis 36:30 Dishon, Ezer, and Dishan; these are the chiefs of the Horites, chief by chief in the land of Seir.
Genesis 36:31  These are the kings who reigned in the land of Edom, before any king reigned over the Israelites.
Genesis 36:32 Bela the son of Beor reigned in Edom, the name of his city being Dinhabah.
Genesis 36:33 Bela died, and Jobab the son of Zerah of Bozrah reigned in his place.
Genesis 36:34 Jobab died, and Husham of the land of the Temanites reigned in his place.
Genesis 36:35 Husham died, and Hadad the son of Bedad, who defeated Midian in the country of Moab, reigned in his place, the name of his city being Avith.
Genesis 36:36 Hadad died, and Samlah of Masrekah reigned in his place.
Genesis 36:37 Samlah died, and Shaul of  reigned in his place.
Genesis 36:38 Shaul died, and Baal-hanan the son of Achbor reigned in his place.
Genesis 36:39 Baal-hanan the son of Achbor died, and Hadar reigned in his place, the name of his city being Pau; his wife's name was Mehetabel, the daughter of Matred, daughter of Mezahab.
Genesis 36:40 These are the names of the chiefs of Esau, according to their clans and their dwelling places, by their names: the chiefs Timna, Alvah, Jetheth,
Genesis 36:41 Oholibamah, Elah, Pinon,
Genesis 36:42 Kenaz, Teman, Mibzar,
Genesis 36:43 Magdiel, and Iram; these are the chiefs of Edom (that is, Esau, the father of Edom), according to their dwelling places in the land of their possession.
Genesis 37:1 Jacob lived in the land of his father's sojournings, in the land of Canaan.
Genesis 37:2 These are the generations of Jacob. Joseph, being seventeen years old, was pasturing the flock with his brothers. He was a boy with the sons of Bilhah and Zilpah, his father's wives. And Joseph brought a bad report of them to their father.
Genesis 37:3 Now Israel loved Joseph more than any other of his sons, because he was
Genesis 37:4 But when his brothers saw that their father loved him more than all his brothers, they hated him and could not speak peacefully to him.
Genesis 37:5 Now Joseph had a dream, and when he told it to his brothers they hated him even more.
Genesis 37:6 He said to them, “Hear this dream that I have dreamed:
Genesis 37:7 Behold, we were binding sheaves in the field, and behold, bowed down to my sheaf.”
Genesis 37:8 His brothers said to him, “Are you indeed to reign over us? Or are you indeed to rule over us?” So they hated him even more for his dreams and for his words.
Genesis 37:9 Then he dreamed another dream and told it to his brothers and said, “Behold, I have dreamed another dream. Behold, the sun, the moon, and eleven stars were bowing down to me.”
Genesis 37:10 But when he told it to his father and to his brothers, his father rebuked him and said to him, “What is this dream that you have dreamed? Shall I and to bow ourselves to the ground before you?”
Genesis 37:11 And but his father kept the saying in mind.
Genesis 37:12 Now his brothers went to pasture their father's flock near Shechem.
Genesis 37:13 And Israel said to Joseph, “Are not your brothers pasturing the flock at Shechem? Come, I will send you to them.” And he said to him, “Here I am.”
Genesis 37:14 So he said to him, “Go now, see if it is well with your brothers and with the flock, and bring me word.” So he sent him from the Valley of Hebron, and he came to Shechem.
Genesis 37:15 And a man found him wandering in the fields. And the man asked him, “What are you seeking?”
Genesis 37:16 “I am seeking my brothers,” he said. “Tell me, please, where they are pasturing the flock.”
Genesis 37:17 And the man said, “They have gone away, for I heard them say, ‘Let us go to Dothan.
Genesis 37:18 They saw him from afar, and before he came near to them they conspired against him to kill him.
Genesis 37:19 They said to one another, “Here comes this dreamer.
Genesis 37:20 Come now,  Then we will say that a fierce animal has devoured him, and we will see what will become of his dreams.”
Genesis 37:21 But when Reuben heard it, he rescued him out of their hands, saying, “Let us not take his life.”
Genesis 37:22 And Reuben said to them, “Shed no blood; throw him into this pit here in the wilderness, but do not lay a hand on him” — that he might rescue him out of their hand to restore him to his father.
Genesis 37:23 So when Joseph came to his brothers, they stripped him of his robe, the robe of many colors that he wore.
Genesis 37:24 And they took him and threw him into a pit. The pit was empty; there was no water in it.
Genesis 37:25 Then they sat down to eat. And looking up they saw a gum, balm, and myrrh, on their way to carry it down to Egypt.
Genesis 37:26 Then Judah said to his brothers, “What profit is it if we kill our brother and conceal his blood?
Genesis 37:27 Come, let us sell him to the Ishmaelites, and let not our hand be upon him, for he is our brother, our own flesh.” And his brothers listened to him.
Genesis 37:28 Then  of silver. They took Joseph to Egypt.
Genesis 37:29 When Reuben returned to the pit and saw that Joseph was not in the pit, he tore his clothes
Genesis 37:30 and returned to his brothers and said, “The boy is gone, and I, where shall I go?”
Genesis 37:31 Then they took Joseph's robe and slaughtered a goat and dipped the robe in the blood.
Genesis 37:32 And they sent the robe of many colors and brought it to their father and said, “This we have found; please identify whether it is your son's robe or not.”
Genesis 37:33 And he identified it and said, “It is my son's robe. A fierce animal has devoured him. Joseph is without doubt torn to pieces.”
Genesis 37:34 Then Jacob tore his garments and put sackcloth on his loins and mourned for his son many days.
Genesis 37:35 All his sons and all his daughters I shall go down to Sheol to my son, mourning.” Thus his father wept for him.
Genesis 37:36 Meanwhile the captain of the guard.
Genesis 38:1 It happened at that time that Judah went down from his brothers and Adullamite, whose name was Hirah.
Genesis 38:2 There Judah saw the daughter of a certain Canaanite whose name was Shua. He took her and went in to her,
Genesis 38:3 and she conceived and bore a son, and he called his name Er.
Genesis 38:4 She conceived again and bore a son, and she called his name Onan.
Genesis 38:5 Yet again she bore a son, and she called his name  was in Chezib when she bore him.
Genesis 38:6 And Judah took a wife for Er his firstborn, and her name was Tamar.
Genesis 38:7 But Er, Judah's firstborn, was wicked in the sight of the LORD, and the LORD put him to death.
Genesis 38:8 Then Judah said to Onan, “Go in to perform the duty of a brother-in-law to her, and raise up offspring for your brother.”
Genesis 38:9 But Onan knew that the offspring would not be his. So whenever he went in to his brother's wife he would waste the semen on the ground, so as not to give offspring to his brother.
Genesis 38:10 And what he did was wicked in the sight of the LORD, and he put him to death also.
Genesis 38:11 Then Judah said to Tamar his daughter-in-law, in her father's house.
Genesis 38:12 In the course of time the wife of Judah, Shua's daughter, died. When Judah Timnah to his sheepshearers, he and his friend Hirah the Adullamite.
Genesis 38:13 And when Tamar was told, “Your father-in-law is going up to Timnah to shear his sheep,”
Genesis 38:14 she took off her widow's garments and she had not been given to him in marriage.
Genesis 38:15 When Judah saw her, he thought she was a prostitute, for she had covered her face.
Genesis 38:16 He turned to her at the roadside and said, “Come, let me come in to you,” for he did not know that she was his daughter-in-law. She said, “What will you give me, that you may come in to me?”
Genesis 38:17 He answered, “I will send you a young goat from the flock.” And she said, “If you give me a pledge, until you send it — ”
Genesis 38:18 He said, “What pledge shall I give you?” She replied, “Your signet and your cord and your staff that is in your hand.” So he gave them to her and went in to her, and she conceived by him.
Genesis 38:19 Then she arose and went away, and taking off her veil she put on the garments of her widowhood.
Genesis 38:20 When Judah sent the young goat by his friend the Adullamite to take back the pledge from the woman's hand, he did not find her.
Genesis 38:21 And he asked the men of the place, “Where is the cult prostitute Enaim at the roadside?” And they said, “No cult prostitute has been here.”
Genesis 38:22 So he returned to Judah and said, “I have not found her. Also, the men of the place said, ‘No cult prostitute has been here.’”
Genesis 38:23 And Judah replied, “Let her keep the things as her own, or we shall be laughed at. You see, I sent this young goat, and you did not find her.”
Genesis 38:24 About three months later Judah was told, “Tamar your daughter-in-law let her be burned.”
Genesis 38:25 As she was being brought out, she sent word to her father-in-law, “By the man to whom these belong, I am pregnant.” And she said, “Please identify whose these are, the signet and the cord and the staff.”
Genesis 38:26 Then Judah identified them and said, I did not give her to my son Shelah.” And he did not know her again.
Genesis 38:27 When the time of her labor came, there were twins in her womb.
Genesis 38:28 And when she was in labor, one put out a hand, and the midwife took and tied a scarlet thread on his hand, saying, “This one came out first.”
Genesis 38:29 But as he drew back his hand, behold, his brother came out. And she said, “What a breach you have made for yourself!” Therefore his name was called
Genesis 38:30 Afterward his brother came out with the scarlet thread on his hand, and his name was called Zerah.
Genesis 39:1 Now Joseph had been brought down to Egypt, and Ishmaelites who had brought him down there.
Genesis 39:2  The LORD was with Joseph, and he became a successful man, and he was in the house of his Egyptian master.
Genesis 39:3 His master saw that the LORD was with him and that the LORD caused all that he did to succeed in his hands.
Genesis 39:4 So Joseph and put him in charge of all that he had.
Genesis 39:5 From the time that he made him overseer in his house and over all that he had, the LORD blessed the Egyptian's house for Joseph's sake; the blessing of the LORD was on all that he had, in house and field.
Genesis 39:6 So he left all that he had in Joseph's charge, and because of him he had no concern about anything but the food he ate. Now Joseph was handsome in form and appearance.
Genesis 39:7 And after a time his master's wife cast her eyes on Joseph and said, “Lie with me.”
Genesis 39:8 But he refused and said to his master's wife, “Behold, because of me my master has no concern about anything in the house, and he has put everything that he has in my charge.
Genesis 39:9 He is not greater in this house than I am, nor has he kept back anything from me except you, because you are his wife. How then can I do this great wickedness and sin against God?”
Genesis 39:10 And as she spoke to Joseph day after day, he would not listen to her, to lie beside her or to be with her.
Genesis 39:11 But one day, when he went into the house to do his work and none of the men of the house was there in the house,
Genesis 39:12  she caught him by his garment, saying, “Lie with me.” But he left his garment in her hand and fled and got out of the house.
Genesis 39:13 And as soon as she saw that he had left his garment in her hand and had fled out of the house,
Genesis 39:14 she called to the men of her household and said to them, “See, he has brought among us a Hebrew to laugh at us. He came in to me to lie with me, and I cried out with a loud voice.
Genesis 39:15 And as soon as he heard that I lifted up my voice and cried out, he left his garment beside me and fled and got out of the house.”
Genesis 39:16 Then she laid up his garment by her until his master came home,
Genesis 39:17 and she told him the same story, saying, “The Hebrew servant, whom you have brought among us, came in to me to laugh at me.
Genesis 39:18 But as soon as I lifted up my voice and cried, he left his garment beside me and fled out of the house.”
Genesis 39:19 As soon as his master heard the words that his wife spoke to him, “This is the way your servant treated me,” his anger was kindled.
Genesis 39:20 And Joseph's master took him and prison, the place where the king's prisoners were confined, and he was there in prison.
Genesis 39:21 But and gave him favor in the sight of the keeper of the prison.
Genesis 39:22 And the keeper of the prison put Joseph in charge of all the prisoners who were in the prison. Whatever was done there, he was the one who did it.
Genesis 39:23 The keeper of the prison paid no attention to anything that was in Joseph's charge, because the LORD was with him. And whatever he did, the LORD made it succeed.
Genesis 40:1 Some time after this, the cupbearer of the king of Egypt and his baker committed an offense against their lord the king of Egypt.
Genesis 40:2 And Pharaoh was angry with his two officers, the chief cupbearer and the chief baker,
Genesis 40:3  and he put them in custody in the house of the captain of the guard, in the prison where Joseph was confined.
Genesis 40:4 The captain of the guard appointed Joseph to be with them, and he attended them. They continued for some time in custody.
Genesis 40:5 And one night they both dreamed — the cupbearer and the baker of the king of Egypt, who were confined in the prison — each his own dream, and each dream with its own interpretation.
Genesis 40:6 When Joseph came to them in the morning, he saw that they were troubled.
Genesis 40:7 So he asked Pharaoh's officers who were with him in custody in his master's house, “Why are your faces downcast today?”
Genesis 40:8 They said to him, “Do not interpretations belong to God? Please tell them to me.”
Genesis 40:9 So the chief cupbearer told his dream to Joseph and said to him, “In my dream there was a vine before me,
Genesis 40:10 and on the vine there were three branches. As soon as it budded, its blossoms shot forth, and the clusters ripened into grapes.
Genesis 40:11 Pharaoh's cup was in my hand, and I took the grapes and pressed them into Pharaoh's cup and placed the cup in Pharaoh's hand.”
Genesis 40:12 Then Joseph said to him, the three branches are three days.
Genesis 40:13 In three days Pharaoh will lift up your head and restore you to your office, and you shall place Pharaoh's cup in his hand as formerly, when you were his cupbearer.
Genesis 40:14 Only remember me, when it is well with you, and please do me the kindness to mention me to Pharaoh, and so get me out of this house.
Genesis 40:15 For here also I have done nothing that they should put me into the pit.”
Genesis 40:16 When the chief baker saw that the interpretation was favorable, he said to Joseph, “I also had a dream: there were three cake baskets on my head,
Genesis 40:17 and in the uppermost basket there were all sorts of baked food for Pharaoh, but the birds were eating it out of the basket on my head.”
Genesis 40:18 And Joseph answered and said, “This is its interpretation: the three baskets are three days.
Genesis 40:19  hang you on a tree. And the birds will eat the flesh from you.”
Genesis 40:20 On the third day, which was Pharaoh's lifted up the head of the chief cupbearer and the head of the chief baker among his servants.
Genesis 40:21  he placed the cup in Pharaoh's hand.
Genesis 40:22 But he hanged the chief baker, as Joseph had interpreted to them.
Genesis 40:23 Yet the chief cupbearer did not remember Joseph, but forgot him.
Genesis 41:1 After two whole years, Pharaoh dreamed that he was standing by the Nile,
Genesis 41:2 and behold, there came up out of the Nile seven cows, attractive and plump, and they fed in the reed grass.
Genesis 41:3 And behold, seven other cows, ugly and thin, came up out of the Nile after them, and stood by the other cows on the bank of the Nile.
Genesis 41:4 And the ugly, thin cows ate up the seven attractive, plump cows. And Pharaoh awoke.
Genesis 41:5 And he fell asleep and dreamed a second time. And behold, seven ears of grain, plump and good, were growing on one stalk.
Genesis 41:6 And behold, after them sprouted seven ears, thin and blighted by the east wind.
Genesis 41:7 And the thin ears swallowed up the seven plump, full ears. And Pharaoh awoke, and behold, it was a dream.
Genesis 41:8 So in the morning magicians of Egypt and all its wise men. Pharaoh told them his dreams, but there was none who could interpret them to Pharaoh.
Genesis 41:9 Then the chief cupbearer said to Pharaoh, “I remember my offenses today.
Genesis 41:10 When Pharaoh was and put me and the chief baker in custody in the house of the captain of the guard,
Genesis 41:11  we dreamed on the same night, he and I, each having a dream with its own interpretation.
Genesis 41:12 A young Hebrew was there with us, a servant of the captain of the guard. When we told him, he interpreted our dreams to us, giving an interpretation to each man according to his dream.
Genesis 41:13 And as he interpreted to us, so it came about. I was restored to my office, and the baker was hanged.”
Genesis 41:14  out of the pit. And when he had shaved himself and changed his clothes, he came in before Pharaoh.
Genesis 41:15 And Pharaoh said to Joseph, “I have had a dream, and there is no one who can interpret it. I have heard it said of you that when you hear a dream you can interpret it.”
Genesis 41:16 Joseph answered Pharaoh,
Genesis 41:17 Then Pharaoh said to Joseph, “Behold, in my dream I was standing on the banks of the Nile.
Genesis 41:18 Seven cows, plump and attractive, came up out of the Nile and fed in the reed grass.
Genesis 41:19 Seven other cows came up after them, poor and very ugly and thin, such as I had never seen in all the land of Egypt.
Genesis 41:20 And the thin, ugly cows ate up the first seven plump cows,
Genesis 41:21 but when they had eaten them no one would have known that they had eaten them, for they were still as ugly as at the beginning. Then I awoke.
Genesis 41:22 I also saw in my dream seven ears growing on one stalk, full and good.
Genesis 41:23 Seven ears, withered, thin, and blighted by the east wind, sprouted after them,
Genesis 41:24 and the thin ears swallowed up the seven good ears. And I told it to the magicians, but there was no one who could explain it to me.”
Genesis 41:25 Then Joseph said to Pharaoh, “The dreams of Pharaoh are one; God has revealed to Pharaoh what he is about to do.
Genesis 41:26 The seven good cows are seven years, and the seven good ears are seven years; the dreams are one.
Genesis 41:27 The seven lean and ugly cows that came up after them are seven years, and the seven empty ears blighted by the east wind are also seven years of famine.
Genesis 41:28 It is as I told Pharaoh; God has shown to Pharaoh what he is about to do.
Genesis 41:29 There will come seven years of great plenty throughout all the land of Egypt,
Genesis 41:30 but after them there will arise The famine will consume the land,
Genesis 41:31 and the plenty will be unknown in the land by reason of the famine that will follow, for it will be very severe.
Genesis 41:32 And the doubling of Pharaoh's dream means that the thing is fixed by God, and God will shortly bring it about.
Genesis 41:33 Now therefore let Pharaoh select a discerning and wise man, and set him over the land of Egypt.
Genesis 41:34 Let Pharaoh proceed to appoint overseers over the land and take one-fifth of the produce of the land  of Egypt during the seven plentiful years.
Genesis 41:35 And let them gather all the food of these good years that are coming and store up grain under the authority of Pharaoh for food in the cities, and let them keep it.
Genesis 41:36 That food shall be a reserve for the land against the seven years of famine that are to occur in the land of Egypt, so that the land may not perish through the famine.”
Genesis 41:37 This proposal pleased Pharaoh and all his servants.
Genesis 41:38 And Pharaoh said to his servants, “Can we find a man like this,
Genesis 41:39 Then Pharaoh said to Joseph, “Since God has shown you all this, there is none so discerning and wise as you are.
Genesis 41:40   Only as regards the throne will I be greater than you.”
Genesis 41:41 And Pharaoh said to Joseph, “See, I have set you over all the land of Egypt.”
Genesis 41:42 Then Pharaoh and put a gold chain about his neck.
Genesis 41:43 And he made him ride in his second chariot. over all the land of Egypt.
Genesis 41:44 Moreover, Pharaoh said to Joseph, “I am Pharaoh, and without your consent no one shall lift up hand or foot in all the land of Egypt.”
Genesis 41:45 And Pharaoh called Joseph's name Zaphenath-paneah. And he gave him in marriage Asenath, the daughter of Potiphera priest of On. So Joseph went out over the land of Egypt.
Genesis 41:46 Joseph was thirty years old when he entered the service of Pharaoh king of Egypt. And Joseph went out from the presence of Pharaoh and went through all the land of Egypt.
Genesis 41:47 During the seven plentiful years the earth produced abundantly,
Genesis 41:48 and he gathered up all the food of these seven years, which occurred in the land of Egypt, and put the food in the cities. He put in every city the food from the fields around it.
Genesis 41:49 And Joseph stored up grain in great abundance, like the sand of the sea, until he ceased to measure it, for it could not be measured.
Genesis 41:50 Before the year of famine came, two sons were born to Joseph. Asenath, the daughter of Potiphera priest of On, bore them to him.
Genesis 41:51 Joseph called the name of the firstborn Manasseh. “For,” he said, “God has made me forget all my hardship and all my father's house.”
Genesis 41:52 The name of the second he called Ephraim, “For God has
Genesis 41:53 The seven years of plenty that occurred in the land of Egypt came to an end,
Genesis 41:54 and as Joseph had said. There was famine in all lands, but in all the land of Egypt there was bread.
Genesis 41:55 When all the land of Egypt was famished, the people cried to Pharaoh for bread. Pharaoh said to all the Egyptians, “Go to Joseph. What he says to you, do.”
Genesis 41:56 So when the famine had spread over all the land, Joseph opened all the storehouses sold to the Egyptians, for the famine was severe in the land of Egypt.
Genesis 41:57 Moreover, all the earth came to Egypt to Joseph to buy grain, because the famine was severe over all the earth.
Genesis 42:1 When Jacob learned that there was grain for sale in Egypt, he said to his sons, “Why do you look at one another?”
Genesis 42:2 And he said, “Behold, I have heard that there is grain for sale in Egypt. Go down and buy grain for us there, that we may live and not die.”
Genesis 42:3 So ten of Joseph's brothers went down to buy grain in Egypt.
Genesis 42:4 But Jacob did not send Benjamin, he feared that harm might happen to him.
Genesis 42:5 Thus the sons of Israel came to buy among the others who came, for the famine was in the land of Canaan.
Genesis 42:6 Now Joseph was governor bowed themselves before him with their faces to the ground.
Genesis 42:7 Joseph saw his brothers and recognized them, but he treated them like strangers and spoke roughly to them. “Where do you come from?” he said. They said, “From the land of Canaan, to buy food.”
Genesis 42:8 And Joseph recognized his brothers, but they did not recognize him.
Genesis 42:9 And Joseph And he said to them, “You are spies; you have come to see the nakedness of the land.”
Genesis 42:10 They said to him, “No, my lord, your servants have come to buy food.
Genesis 42:11 We are all sons of one man. We are honest men. Your servants have never been spies.”
Genesis 42:12 He said to them, “No, it is the nakedness of the land that you have come to see.”
Genesis 42:13 And they said, “We, your servants, are twelve brothers, the sons of one man in the land of Canaan, and behold, the youngest is this day with our father, and one is no more.”
Genesis 42:14 But Joseph said to them, “It is as I said to you. You are spies.
Genesis 42:15 By this you shall be tested: by the life of Pharaoh, you shall not go from this place unless your youngest brother comes here.
Genesis 42:16 Send one of you, and let him bring your brother, while you remain confined, that your words may be tested, whether there is truth in you. Or else, by the life of Pharaoh, surely you are spies.”
Genesis 42:17 And he put them all together in custody for three days.
Genesis 42:18 On the third day Joseph said to them, “Do this and you will live, for I fear God:
Genesis 42:19 if you are honest men, let one of your brothers remain confined where you are in custody, and let the rest go and carry grain for the famine of your households,
Genesis 42:20 and bring your youngest brother to me. So your words will be verified, and you shall not die.” And they did so.
Genesis 42:21 Then they said to one another, “In truth we are guilty concerning our brother, in that we saw the distress of his soul, when he begged us and we did not listen. That is why this distress has come upon us.”
Genesis 42:22 And Reuben answered them, there comes a reckoning for his blood.”
Genesis 42:23 They did not know that Joseph understood them, for there was an interpreter between them.
Genesis 42:24 Then he turned away from them and wept. And he returned to them and spoke to them. And he took Simeon from them and bound him before their eyes.
Genesis 42:25  And Joseph gave orders to fill their bags with grain, and to replace every man's money in his sack, and to give them provisions for the journey. This was done for them.
Genesis 42:26 Then they loaded their donkeys with their grain and departed.
Genesis 42:27 And as the lodging place, he saw his money in the mouth of his sack.
Genesis 42:28 He said to his brothers, “My money has been put back; here it is in the mouth of my sack!” At this their hearts failed them, and they turned trembling to one another, saying, “What is this that God has done to us?”
Genesis 42:29 When they came to Jacob their father in the land of Canaan, they told him all that had happened to them, saying,
Genesis 42:30 “The man, the lord of the land, spoke roughly to us and took us to be spies of the land.
Genesis 42:31 But we said to him, ‘We are honest men; we have never been spies.
Genesis 42:32 We are twelve brothers, sons of our father. One is no more, and the youngest is this day with our father in the land of Canaan.’
Genesis 42:33 Then the man, the lord of the land, said to us, grain for the famine of your households, and go your way.
Genesis 42:34 Bring your youngest brother to me. Then I shall know that you are not spies but honest men, and I will deliver your brother to you, and you shall trade in the land.’”
Genesis 42:35  As they emptied their sacks, behold, every man's bundle of money was in his sack. And when they and their father saw their bundles of money, they were afraid.
Genesis 42:36 And Jacob their father said to them, “You have bereaved me of my children: Joseph is no more, and Simeon is no more, and now you would take Benjamin. All this has come against me.”
Genesis 42:37 Then Reuben said to his father, “Kill my two sons if I do not bring him back to you. Put him in my hands, and I will bring him back to you.”
Genesis 42:38 But he said, “My son shall not go down with you, for you would bring down my gray hairs with sorrow to Sheol.”
Genesis 43:1 Now the famine was severe in the land.
Genesis 43:2 And when they had eaten the grain that they had brought from Egypt, their father said to them, “Go again, buy us a little food.”
Genesis 43:3 But Judah said to him, “The man solemnly warned us, saying, ‘You shall not see my face unless your brother is with you.’
Genesis 43:4 If you will send our brother with us, we will go down and buy you food.
Genesis 43:5 But if you will not send him, we will not go down, for the man said to us, ‘You shall not see my face, unless your brother is with you.’”
Genesis 43:6 Israel said, “Why did you treat me so badly as to tell the man that you had another brother?”
Genesis 43:7 They replied, “The man questioned us carefully about ourselves and our kindred, saying, ‘Is your father still alive? Do you have another brother?’ What we told him was in answer to these questions. Could we in any way know that he would say, ‘Bring your brother down’?”
Genesis 43:8 And Judah said to Israel his father, “Send the boy with me, and we will arise and go, that we may live and not die, both we and you and also our little ones.
Genesis 43:9 I will be a pledge of his safety. From my hand you shall require him. If I do not bring him back to you and set him before you, then let me bear the blame forever.
Genesis 43:10 If we had not delayed, we would now have returned twice.”
Genesis 43:11 Then their father Israel said to them, “If it must be so, then do this: take some of the choice fruits of the land in your bags, and carry a present down to the man, a little balm and a little honey, gum, myrrh, pistachio nuts, and almonds.
Genesis 43:12 Take double the money with you. Carry back with you the money that was returned in the mouth of your sacks. Perhaps it was an oversight.
Genesis 43:13 Take also your brother, and arise, go again to the man.
Genesis 43:14 May if I am bereaved of my children, I am bereaved.”
Genesis 43:15 So the men took this present, and they took double the money with them, and Benjamin. They arose and went down to Egypt and stood before Joseph.
Genesis 43:16 When Joseph saw Benjamin with them, he said to the steward of his house, “Bring the men into the house, and slaughter an animal and make ready, for the men are to dine with me at noon.”
Genesis 43:17 The man did as Joseph told him and brought the men to Joseph's house.
Genesis 43:18 And the men were afraid because they were brought to Joseph's house, and they said, “It is because of the money, which was replaced in our sacks the first time, that we are brought in, so that he may assault us and fall upon us to make us servants and seize our donkeys.”
Genesis 43:19 So they went up to the steward of Joseph's house and spoke with him at the door of the house,
Genesis 43:20 and said, we came down the first time to buy food.
Genesis 43:21 And when we came to the lodging place we opened our sacks, and there was each man's money in the mouth of his sack, our money in full weight. So we have brought it again with us,
Genesis 43:22 and we have brought other money down with us to buy food. We do not know who put our money in our sacks.”
Genesis 43:23 He replied, “Peace to you, do not be afraid. Your God and the God of your father has put treasure in your sacks for you. I received your money.” Then he brought Simeon out to them.
Genesis 43:24 And when the man had brought the men into Joseph's house and given them water, and they had washed their feet, and when he had given their donkeys fodder,
Genesis 43:25 they prepared the present for Joseph's coming at noon, for they heard that they should eat bread there.
Genesis 43:26 When Joseph came home, they brought into the house to him the present that they had with them and bowed down to him to the ground.
Genesis 43:27 And he inquired about their welfare and said, “Is your father well, the old man of whom you spoke? Is he still alive?”
Genesis 43:28 They said, “Your servant our father is well; he is still alive.” And they bowed their heads and prostrated themselves.
Genesis 43:29 And he lifted up his eyes and saw his brother Benjamin, of whom you spoke to me? God be gracious to you, my son!”
Genesis 43:30 Then Joseph hurried out, for wept there.
Genesis 43:31 Then he washed his face and came out. And controlling himself he said, “Serve the food.”
Genesis 43:32 They served him by himself, and them by themselves, and the Egyptians who ate with him by themselves, because the Egyptians could not eat with the Hebrews, for that is an abomination to the Egyptians.
Genesis 43:33 And they sat before him, the firstborn according to his birthright and the youngest according to his youth. And the men looked at one another in amazement.
Genesis 43:34   with him.
Genesis 44:1 Then he commanded “Fill the men's sacks with food, as much as they can carry, and put each man's money in the mouth of his sack,
Genesis 44:2 and put my cup, the silver cup, in the mouth of the sack of the youngest, with his money for the grain.” And he did as Joseph told him.
Genesis 44:3 As soon as the morning was light, the men were sent away with their donkeys.
Genesis 44:4 They had gone only a short distance from the city. Now Joseph said to his
Genesis 44:5 Is it not from this that my lord drinks, and by this that he practices divination? You have done evil in doing this.’”
Genesis 44:6 When he overtook them, he spoke to them these words.
Genesis 44:7 They said to him, “Why does my lord speak such words as these? Far be it from your servants to do such a thing!
Genesis 44:8 Behold, the money that we found in the mouths of our sacks we brought back to you from the land of Canaan. How then could we steal silver or gold from your lord's house?
Genesis 44:9  my lord's servants.”
Genesis 44:10 He said, “Let it be as you say: he who is found with it shall be my servant, and the rest of you shall be innocent.”
Genesis 44:11 Then each man quickly lowered his sack to the ground, and each man opened his sack.
Genesis 44:12 And he searched, beginning with the eldest and ending with the youngest. And the cup was found in Benjamin's sack.
Genesis 44:13 Then they tore their clothes, and every man loaded his donkey, and they returned to the city.
Genesis 44:14 When Judah and his brothers came to Joseph's house, he was still there. They fell before him to the ground.
Genesis 44:15 Joseph said to them, “What deed is this that you have done? Do you not know that a man like me can indeed practice divination?”
Genesis 44:16 And Judah said, “What shall we say to my lord? What shall we speak? Or how can we clear ourselves? God has found out my lord's servants, both we and he also in whose hand the cup has been found.”
Genesis 44:17 But he said, “Far be it from me that I should do so! Only the man in whose hand the cup was found shall be my servant. But as for you, go up in peace to your father.”
Genesis 44:18 Then Judah went up to him and said, you are like Pharaoh himself.
Genesis 44:19 My lord asked his servants, saying, ‘Have you a father, or a brother?’
Genesis 44:20 And we said to my lord, ‘We have a father, an old man, the child of his old age. His brother is dead, and he alone is left of his mother's children, and his father loves him.’
Genesis 44:21 Then you said to your servants, ‘Bring him down to me, that I may set my eyes on him.’
Genesis 44:22 We said to my lord, ‘The boy cannot leave his father, for if he should leave his father, his father would die.’
Genesis 44:23 Then you said to your servants, ‘Unless your youngest brother comes down with you, you shall not see my face again.’
Genesis 44:24 “When we went back to your servant my father, we told him the words of my lord.
Genesis 44:25 And when our father said, ‘Go again, buy us a little food,’
Genesis 44:26 we said, ‘We cannot go down. If our youngest brother goes with us, then we will go down. For we cannot see the man's face unless our youngest brother is with us.’
Genesis 44:27 Then your servant my father said to us, ‘You know that my wife bore me two sons.
Genesis 44:28 One left me, and I said, “Surely he has been torn to pieces,” and I have never seen him since.
Genesis 44:29 If you and harm happens to him, you will bring down my gray hairs in evil to Sheol.’
Genesis 44:30 “Now therefore, as soon as I come to your servant my father, and the boy is not with us, then, as his life is bound up in the boy's life,
Genesis 44:31 as soon as he sees that the boy is not with us, he will die, and your servants will bring down the gray hairs of your servant our father with sorrow to Sheol.
Genesis 44:32 For your servant became a pledge of safety for the boy to my father, saying, ‘If I do not bring him back to you, then I shall bear the blame before my father all my life.’
Genesis 44:33 Now therefore, please let your servant remain instead of the boy as a servant to my lord, and let the boy go back with his brothers.
Genesis 44:34 For how can I go back to my father if the boy is not with me? I fear to see the evil that would find my father.”
Genesis 45:1 Then Joseph could not control himself before all those who stood by him. He cried, “Make everyone go out from me.” So no one stayed with him when Joseph made himself known to his brothers.
Genesis 45:2 And he wept aloud, so that the Egyptians heard it, and the household of Pharaoh heard it.
Genesis 45:3 And Joseph said to his brothers, “I am Joseph! Is my father still alive?” But his brothers could not answer him, for they were dismayed at his presence.
Genesis 45:4 So Joseph said to his brothers, “Come near to me, please.” And they came near. And he said, “I am your brother, Joseph, whom you sold into Egypt.
Genesis 45:5 And now do not be distressed or angry with yourselves because you sold me here, for God sent me before you to preserve life.
Genesis 45:6 For the famine has been in the land these two years, and there are plowing nor harvest.
Genesis 45:7 And God sent me before you to preserve for you a remnant on earth, and to keep alive for you many survivors.
Genesis 45:8 So it was not you who sent me here, but God. He has made me a father to Pharaoh, and lord of all his house and ruler over all the land of Egypt.
Genesis 45:9 Hurry and go up to my father and say to him, ‘Thus says your son Joseph, God has made me lord of all Egypt. Come down to me; do not tarry.
Genesis 45:10  You shall dwell in the land of Goshen, and you shall be near me, you and your children and your children's children, and your flocks, your herds, and all that you have.
Genesis 45:11  There I will provide for you, for there are yet five years of famine to come, so that you and your household, and all that you have, do not come to poverty.’
Genesis 45:12 And now your eyes see, and the eyes of my brother Benjamin see, that it is my mouth that speaks to you.
Genesis 45:13 You must tell my father of all my honor in Egypt, and of all that you have seen. Hurry and bring my father down here.”
Genesis 45:14 Then he fell upon his brother Benjamin's neck and wept, and Benjamin wept upon his neck.
Genesis 45:15 And he kissed all his brothers and wept upon them. After that his brothers talked with him.
Genesis 45:16 When the report was heard in Pharaoh's house, “Joseph's brothers have come,” it pleased Pharaoh and his servants.
Genesis 45:17 And Pharaoh said to Joseph, “Say to your brothers, ‘Do this: load your beasts and go back to the land of Canaan,
Genesis 45:18 and take your father and your households, and come to me, and I will give you the best of the land of Egypt, and you shall eat the fat of the land.’
Genesis 45:19 And you, Joseph, are commanded to say, ‘Do this: take wagons from the land of Egypt for your little ones and for your wives, and bring your father, and come.
Genesis 45:20 Have no concern for  your goods, for the best of all the land of Egypt is yours.’”
Genesis 45:21 The sons of Israel did so: and Joseph gave them wagons, according to the command of Pharaoh, and gave them provisions for the journey.
Genesis 45:22 To each and all of them he gave five changes of clothes.
Genesis 45:23 To his father he sent as follows: ten donkeys loaded with the good things of Egypt, and ten female donkeys loaded with grain, bread, and provision for his father on the journey.
Genesis 45:24 Then he sent his brothers away, and as they departed, he said to them, “Do not quarrel on the way.”
Genesis 45:25 So they went up out of Egypt and came to the land of Canaan to their father Jacob.
Genesis 45:26 And they told him, “Joseph is still alive, and he is ruler over all the land of Egypt.” And his heart became numb, for he did not believe them.
Genesis 45:27 But when they told him all the words of Joseph, which he had said to them, and when he saw the wagons that Joseph had sent to carry him, the spirit of their father Jacob revived.
Genesis 45:28 And Israel said, “It is enough; Joseph my son is still alive. I will go and see him before I die.”
Genesis 46:1 So Israel took his journey with all that he had and came to to the God of his father Isaac.
Genesis 46:2 And God spoke to Israel in visions of the night and said, “Jacob, Jacob.” And he said, “Here I am.”
Genesis 46:3 Then he said, “I am God, make you into a great nation.
Genesis 46:4 I myself will go down with you to Egypt, and I will also Joseph's hand shall close your eyes.”
Genesis 46:5 Then Jacob set out from Beersheba. The sons of Israel carried Jacob their father, their little ones, and their wives, in the wagons that Pharaoh had sent to carry him.
Genesis 46:6 They also took their livestock and their goods, which they had gained in the land of Canaan, and came into Egypt, Jacob and all his offspring with him,
Genesis 46:7 his sons, and his sons' sons with him, his daughters, and his sons' daughters. All his offspring he brought with him into Egypt.
Genesis 46:8  Reuben, Jacob's firstborn,
Genesis 46:9 and the sons of Reuben: Hanoch, Pallu, Hezron, and Carmi.
Genesis 46:10 The sons of Simeon: Jemuel, Jamin, Ohad, Jachin, Zohar, and Shaul, the son of a Canaanite woman.
Genesis 46:11 The sons of Levi: Gershon, Kohath, and Merari.
Genesis 46:12 The sons of Perez were Hezron and Hamul.
Genesis 46:13  The sons of Issachar: Tola, Puvah, Yob, and Shimron.
Genesis 46:14 The sons of Zebulun: Sered, Elon, and Jahleel.
Genesis 46:15 These are the sons of Leah, whom she bore to Jacob in Paddan-aram, together with his daughter Dinah; altogether his sons and his daughters numbered thirty-three.
Genesis 46:16 The sons of Gad: Ziphion, Haggi, Shuni, Ezbon, Eri, Arodi, and Areli.
Genesis 46:17  The sons of Asher: Imnah, Ishvah, Ishvi, Beriah, with Serah their sister. And the sons of Beriah: Heber and Malchiel.
Genesis 46:18  whom Laban gave to Leah his daughter; and these she bore to Jacob — sixteen persons.
Genesis 46:19 The sons of Rachel, Jacob's wife: Joseph and Benjamin.
Genesis 46:20 And On, bore to him.
Genesis 46:21 And the sons of Benjamin: Bela, Becher, Ashbel, Gera, Naaman, Ehi, Rosh, Muppim, Huppim, and Ard.
Genesis 46:22 These are the sons of Rachel, who were born to Jacob — fourteen persons in all.
Genesis 46:23 The son  of Dan: Hushim.
Genesis 46:24  The sons of Naphtali: Jahzeel, Guni, Jezer, and Shillem.
Genesis 46:25  whom Laban gave to Rachel his daughter, and these she bore to Jacob — seven persons in all.
Genesis 46:26 All the persons belonging to Jacob who came into Egypt, who were his own descendants, not including Jacob's sons' wives, were sixty-six persons in all.
Genesis 46:27 And the sons of Joseph, who were born to him in Egypt, were two. All the persons of the house of Jacob who came into Egypt were seventy.
Genesis 46:28 He had sent Judah ahead of him to Joseph to show the way before him in Goshen, and they came into the land of Goshen.
Genesis 46:29 Then Joseph prepared his chariot and went up to meet Israel his father in Goshen. He presented himself to him and fell on his neck and wept on his neck a good while.
Genesis 46:30 Israel said to Joseph, “Now let me die, since I have seen your face and know that you are still alive.”
Genesis 46:31 Joseph said to his brothers and to his father's household, “I will go up and tell Pharaoh and will say to him, ‘My brothers and my father's household, who were in the land of Canaan, have come to me.
Genesis 46:32  And the men are shepherds, for they have been keepers of livestock, and they have brought their flocks and their herds and all that they have.’
Genesis 46:33 When Pharaoh calls you and says, ‘What is your occupation?’
Genesis 46:34 you shall say, an abomination to the Egyptians.”
Genesis 47:1 So Joseph the land of Goshen.”
Genesis 47:2 And from among his brothers he took five men and presented them to Pharaoh.
Genesis 47:3 Pharaoh said to his brothers, “Your servants are shepherds, as our fathers were.”
Genesis 47:4 They said to Pharaoh, in the land of Goshen.”
Genesis 47:5 Then Pharaoh said to Joseph, “Your father and your brothers have come to you.
Genesis 47:6 The land of Egypt is before you. Settle your father and your brothers able men among them, put them in charge of my livestock.”
Genesis 47:7 Then Joseph brought in Jacob his father and stood him before Pharaoh, and Jacob blessed Pharaoh.
Genesis 47:8 And Pharaoh said to Jacob, “How many are the days of the years of your life?”
Genesis 47:9 And Jacob said to Pharaoh, “The days of the years of my sojourning.”
Genesis 47:10 And Jacob blessed Pharaoh and went out from the presence of Pharaoh.
Genesis 47:11 Then Joseph settled his father and his brothers and gave them a possession in the land of Egypt, in the best of the land, in the land of as Pharaoh had commanded.
Genesis 47:12 And Joseph provided his father, his brothers, and all his father's household with food, according to the number of their dependents.
Genesis 47:13 Now there was no food in all the land, for the famine was very severe, so that the land of Egypt and the land of Canaan languished by reason of the famine.
Genesis 47:14  And Joseph gathered up all the money that was found in the land of Egypt and in the land of Canaan, in exchange for the grain that they bought. And Joseph brought the money into Pharaoh's house.
Genesis 47:15 And when the money was all spent in the land of Egypt and in the land of Canaan, all the Egyptians came to Joseph and said, “Give us food. Why should we die before your eyes? For our money is gone.”
Genesis 47:16 And Joseph answered, “Give your livestock, and I will give you food in exchange for your livestock, if your money is gone.”
Genesis 47:17 So they brought their livestock to Joseph, and Joseph gave them food in exchange for the horses, the flocks, the herds, and the donkeys. He supplied them with food in exchange for all their livestock that year.
Genesis 47:18 And when that year was ended, they came to him the following year and said to him, “We will not hide from my lord that our money is all spent. The herds of livestock are my lord's. There is nothing left in the sight of my lord but our bodies and our land.
Genesis 47:19 Why should we die before your eyes, both we and our land? Buy us and our land for food, and we with our land will be servants to Pharaoh. And give us seed that we may live and not die, and that the land may not be desolate.”
Genesis 47:20 So Joseph bought all the land of Egypt for Pharaoh, for all the Egyptians sold their fields, because the famine was severe on them. The land became Pharaoh's.
Genesis 47:21 As for the people, he made servants of them  from one end of Egypt to the other.
Genesis 47:22  Only the land of the priests he did not buy, for the priests had a fixed allowance from Pharaoh and lived on the allowance that Pharaoh gave them; therefore they did not sell their land.
Genesis 47:23 Then Joseph said to the people, “Behold, I have this day bought you and your land for Pharaoh. Now here is seed for you, and you shall sow the land.
Genesis 47:24 And at the harvests you shall give a fifth to Pharaoh, and four fifths shall be your own, as seed for the field and as food for yourselves and your households, and as food for your little ones.”
Genesis 47:25 And they said, “You have saved our lives; may it please my lord, we will be servants to Pharaoh.”
Genesis 47:26 So Joseph made it a statute concerning the land of Egypt, and it stands to this day, that Pharaoh should have the fifth; the land of the priests alone did not become Pharaoh's.
Genesis 47:27 Thus Israel settled in the land of Egypt, And they gained possessions in it, and were fruitful and multiplied greatly.
Genesis 47:28 And Jacob lived in the land of Egypt seventeen years. So the days of Jacob, the years of his life, were 147 years.
Genesis 47:29 And Do not bury me in Egypt,
Genesis 47:30 but let me lie with my fathers. Carry me out of Egypt and bury me in their burying place.” He answered, “I will do as you have said.”
Genesis 47:31 And he said, “Swear to me”; and he swore to him. Then
Genesis 48:1 After this, Joseph was told, “Behold, your father is ill.” So he took with him his two sons, Manasseh and Ephraim.
Genesis 48:2 And it was told to Jacob, “Your son Joseph has come to you.” Then Israel summoned his strength and sat up in bed.
Genesis 48:3 And Jacob said to Joseph, Luz in the land of Canaan and blessed me,
Genesis 48:4 and said to me, ‘Behold, I will make you fruitful and multiply you, and I will make of you a company of peoples and will give this land to your offspring after you for an everlasting possession.’
Genesis 48:5 And now your are mine; Ephraim and Manasseh shall be mine, as Reuben and Simeon are.
Genesis 48:6 And the children that you fathered after them shall be yours. They shall be called by the name of their brothers in their inheritance.
Genesis 48:7 As for me, when I came from Paddan, to my sorrow  to go to Ephrath, and I buried her there on the way to Ephrath (that is, Bethlehem).”
Genesis 48:8 When Israel saw Joseph's sons, he said, “Who are these?”
Genesis 48:9 Joseph said to his father, I may bless them.”
Genesis 48:10 Now and he kissed them and embraced them.
Genesis 48:11 And Israel said to Joseph, “I never expected to see your face; and behold, God has let me see your offspring also.”
Genesis 48:12 Then Joseph removed them from his knees, and he bowed himself with his face to the earth.
Genesis 48:13 And Joseph took them both, Ephraim in his right hand toward Israel's left hand, and Manasseh in his left hand toward Israel's right hand, and brought them near him.
Genesis 48:14  crossing his hands (for Manasseh was the firstborn).
Genesis 48:15 And he blessed Joseph and said, “The God before whom my fathers Abraham and Isaac walked, the God who has been my shepherd all my life long to this day,
Genesis 48:16   in the midst of the earth.”
Genesis 48:17 When Joseph saw that his father laid his right hand on the head of Ephraim, it displeased him, and he took his father's hand to move it from Ephraim's head to Manasseh's head.
Genesis 48:18 And Joseph said to his father, “Not this way, my father; since this one is the firstborn, put your right hand on his head.”
Genesis 48:19 But his father refused and said,  of nations.”
Genesis 48:20 So he blessed them that day, saying, “By you Israel will pronounce blessings, saying, ‘God make you as Ephraim and as Manasseh.’”  Thus he put Ephraim before Manasseh.
Genesis 48:21 Then Israel said to Joseph, “Behold, I am about to die, but God will be with you and will bring you again to the land of your fathers.
Genesis 48:22 Moreover, I have given to  that I took from the hand of the Amorites with my sword and with my bow.”
Genesis 49:1  in days to come.
Genesis 49:2 “Assemble and listen, O sons of Jacob, listen to Israel your father.
Genesis 49:3 “Reuben, you are firstfruits of my strength, preeminent in dignity and preeminent in power.
Genesis 49:4 Unstable as water, you shall not have preeminence, because you went up to your father's bed; then you defiled it — he went up to my couch!
Genesis 49:5  of violence are their swords.
Genesis 49:6 Let my soul come not into their council;  hamstrung oxen.
Genesis 49:7 Cursed be their anger, for it is fierce, and their wrath, for it is cruel! I will divide them in Jacob and scatter them in Israel.
Genesis 49:8 “Judah,your father's sons shall bow down before you.
Genesis 49:9 Judah isHe stooped down; he crouched as a lion and as a lioness; who dares rouse him?
Genesis 49:10 The  and to him shall be the obedience of the peoples.
Genesis 49:11 Binding his foal to the vine and his donkey's colt to the choice vine, he has washed his garments in wine and his vesture in the blood of grapes.
Genesis 49:12 His eyes are darker than wine, and his teeth whiter than milk.
Genesis 49:13  shore of the sea; he shall become a haven for ships, and his border shall be at Sidon.
Genesis 49:14
Genesis 49:15 He saw that a resting place was good, and that the land was pleasant, so he bowed his shoulder to bear, and became a servant at forced labor.
Genesis 49:16  judge his people as one of the tribes of Israel.
Genesis 49:17 Dan shall be a serpent in the way, a viper by the path, that bites the horse's heels so that his rider falls backward.
Genesis 49:18 I wait for your salvation, O LORD.
Genesis 49:19   but he shall raid at their heels.
Genesis 49:20  “Asher's food shall be rich, and he shall yield royal delicacies.
Genesis 49:21
Genesis 49:22 “Joseph is
Genesis 49:23 The archers bitterly attacked him, shot at him, and harassed him severely,
Genesis 49:24 yet the Stone of Israel),
Genesis 49:25  who will bless you with blessings of heaven above, blessings of the deep that crouches beneath, blessings of the breasts and of the womb.
Genesis 49:26 The blessings of your father are mighty beyond the blessings of my parents, up to the bounties on the head of Joseph, and on the brow of him who was set apart from his brothers.
Genesis 49:27  dividing the spoil.”
Genesis 49:28 All these are the twelve tribes of Israel. This is what their father said to them as he blessed them, blessing each with the blessing suitable to him.
Genesis 49:29 Then he commanded them and said to them, “I am to be in the cave that is in the field of Ephron the Hittite,
Genesis 49:30 in the cave that is in the field at Machpelah, to the east of Mamre, in the land of Canaan, which Abraham bought with the field from Ephron the Hittite to possess as a burying place.
Genesis 49:31  they buried Isaac and Rebekah his wife, and there I buried Leah —
Genesis 49:32 the field and the cave that is in it were bought from the Hittites.”
Genesis 49:33 When Jacob finished commanding his sons, he drew up his feet into the bed and breathed his last and was gathered to his people.
Genesis 50:1 Then Joseph fell on his father's face and wept over him and kissed him.
Genesis 50:2 And Joseph commanded his servants the physicians to embalm his father. So the physicians embalmed Israel.
Genesis 50:3 Forty days were required for it, for that is how many are required for embalming. And the Egyptians wept for him seventy days.
Genesis 50:4 And when the days of weeping for him were past, Joseph spoke to the household of Pharaoh, saying, “If now I have found favor in your eyes, please speak in the ears of Pharaoh, saying,
Genesis 50:5 ‘My father made me swear, saying, “I am about to die: in my tomb that I hewed out for myself in the land of Canaan, there shall you bury me.” Now therefore, let me please go up and bury my father. Then I will return.’”
Genesis 50:6 And Pharaoh answered, “Go up, and bury your father, as he made you swear.”
Genesis 50:7 So Joseph went up to bury his father. With him went up all the servants of Pharaoh, the elders of his household, and all the elders of the land of Egypt,
Genesis 50:8 as well as all the household of Joseph, his brothers, and his father's household. Only their children, their flocks, and their herds were left in the land of Goshen.
Genesis 50:9 And there went up with him both chariots and horsemen. It was a very great company.
Genesis 50:10 When they came to the threshing floor of Atad, which is beyond the Jordan, made a mourning for his father seven days.
Genesis 50:11 When the inhabitants of the land, the Canaanites, saw the mourning on the threshing floor of Atad, they said, “This is a grievous mourning by the Egyptians.” Therefore the place was named Abel-mizraim;  it is beyond the Jordan.
Genesis 50:12 Thus his sons did for him as he had commanded them,
Genesis 50:13 for bought with the field from Ephron the Hittite to possess as a burying place.
Genesis 50:14 After he had buried his father, Joseph returned to Egypt with his brothers and all who had gone up with him to bury his father.
Genesis 50:15 When Joseph's brothers saw that their father was dead, they said, “It may be that Joseph will hate us and pay us back for all the evil that we did to him.”
Genesis 50:16 So they sent a message to Joseph, saying, “Your father gave this command before he died:
Genesis 50:17 ‘Say to Joseph, “Please forgive the transgression of your brothers and their sin, because they did evil to you.”’ And now, please forgive the transgression of the servants of the God of your father.” Joseph wept when they spoke to him.
Genesis 50:18 His brothers also came and fell down before him and said, “Behold, we are your servants.”
Genesis 50:19 But Joseph said to them, “Do not fear, for am I in the place of God?
Genesis 50:20 As for you, you meant evil against me, but  should be kept alive, as they are today.
Genesis 50:21 So do not fear; I will provide for you and your little ones.” Thus he comforted them and spoke kindly to them.
Genesis 50:22 So Joseph remained in Egypt, he and his father's house. Joseph lived 110 years.
Genesis 50:23 And Joseph saw Ephraim's children
Genesis 50:24 And Joseph said to his brothers, “I am about to die, but that he swore to Abraham, to Isaac, and to Jacob.”
Genesis 50:25 Then Joseph made the sons of Israel swear, saying, “God will surely visit you, and you shall carry up my bones from here.”
Genesis 50:26 So Joseph died, being 110 years old. They embalmed him, and he was put in a coffin in Egypt.
Exodus 1:1  These are the names of the sons of Israel who came to Egypt with Jacob, each with his household:
Exodus 1:2 Reuben, Simeon, Levi, and Judah,
Exodus 1:3 Issachar, Zebulun, and Benjamin,
Exodus 1:4 Dan and Naphtali, Gad and Asher.
Exodus 1:5 All the descendants of Jacob were seventy persons; Joseph was already in Egypt.
Exodus 1:6 Then Joseph died, and all his brothers and all that generation.
Exodus 1:7  But the people of Israel were fruitful and increased greatly; they multiplied and grew exceedingly strong, so that the land was filled with them.
Exodus 1:8 Now there arose a new king over Egypt, who did not know Joseph.
Exodus 1:9 And he said to his people, “Behold, the people of Israel are too many and too mighty for us.
Exodus 1:10  let us deal shrewdly with them, lest they multiply, and, if war breaks out, they join our enemies and fight against us and escape from the land.”
Exodus 1:11 Therefore they set taskmasters over them Raamses.
Exodus 1:12 But the more they were oppressed, the more they multiplied and the more they spread abroad. And the Egyptians were in dread of the people of Israel.
Exodus 1:13 So they ruthlessly made the people of Israel work as slaves
Exodus 1:14 and made their lives bitter with hard service, in mortar and brick, and in all kinds of work in the field. In all their work they ruthlessly made them work as slaves.
Exodus 1:15 Then the king of Egypt said to the Hebrew midwives, one of whom was named Shiphrah and the other Puah,
Exodus 1:16 “When you serve as midwife to the Hebrew women and see them on the birthstool, if it is a son, you shall kill him, but if it is a daughter, she shall live.”
Exodus 1:17 But the midwives feared God and did not do as the king of Egypt commanded them, but let the male children live.
Exodus 1:18 So the king of Egypt called the midwives and said to them, “Why have you done this, and let the male children live?”
Exodus 1:19 The midwives said to Pharaoh, “Because the Hebrew women are not like the Egyptian women, for they are vigorous and give birth before the midwife comes to them.”
Exodus 1:20  So God dealt well with the midwives. And the people multiplied and grew very strong.
Exodus 1:21 And because the midwives feared God, he gave them families.
Exodus 1:22 Then Pharaoh commanded all his people, the Nile, but you shall let every daughter live.”
Exodus 2:1 Now a man from the house of Levi went and took as his wife a Levite woman.
Exodus 2:2 The woman conceived and bore a son, and when she saw that he was a fine child, she hid him three months.
Exodus 2:3 When she could hide him no longer, she took for him a basket made of bulrushes reeds by the river bank.
Exodus 2:4 And his sister stood at a distance to know what would be done to him.
Exodus 2:5 Now the daughter of Pharaoh came down to bathe at the river, while her young women walked beside the river. She saw the basket among the reeds and sent her servant woman, and she took it.
Exodus 2:6 When she opened it, she saw the child, and behold, the baby was crying. She took pity on him and said, “This is one of the Hebrews' children.”
Exodus 2:7 Then his sister said to Pharaoh's daughter, “Shall I go and call you a nurse from the Hebrew women to nurse the child for you?”
Exodus 2:8 And Pharaoh's daughter said to her, “Go.” So the girl went and called the child's mother.
Exodus 2:9 And Pharaoh's daughter said to her, “Take this child away and nurse him for me, and I will give you your wages.” So the woman took the child and nursed him.
Exodus 2:10 When the child grew older, she brought him to Pharaoh's daughter, and he became
Exodus 2:11 One day,
Exodus 2:12 He looked this way and that, and seeing no one, he struck down the Egyptian and hid him in the sand.
Exodus 2:13 When he went out the next day, behold, two Hebrews were struggling together. And he said to the man in the wrong, “Why do you strike your companion?”
Exodus 2:14 He answered, “Who made you a prince and a judge over us? Do you mean to kill me as you killed the Egyptian?” Then Moses was afraid, and thought, “Surely the thing is known.”
Exodus 2:15 When Pharaoh heard of it, he sought to kill Moses. But a well.
Exodus 2:16 Now the they came and drew water and filled the troughs to water their father's flock.
Exodus 2:17 The shepherds came and drove them away, but Moses stood up and saved them, and watered their flock.
Exodus 2:18 When they came home to their father Reuel, he said, “How is it that you have come home so soon today?”
Exodus 2:19 They said, “An Egyptian delivered us out of the hand of the shepherds and even drew water for us and watered the flock.”
Exodus 2:20 He said to his daughters, “Then where is he? Why have you left the man? Call him, that he may eat bread.”
Exodus 2:21 And Moses was content to dwell with the man, and he gave Moses his daughter Zipporah.
Exodus 2:22 She gave birth to a son, and he called his name  in a foreign land.”
Exodus 2:23  Their cry for rescue from slavery came up to God.
Exodus 2:24 And Abraham, with Isaac, and with Jacob.
Exodus 2:25 God knew.
Exodus 3:1 Now Moses was keeping the flock of his father-in-law, Jethro, the priest of Midian, and he led his flock to the west side of the wilderness and came to Horeb, the mountain of God.
Exodus 3:2  the angel of the LORD appeared to him in a flame of fire out of the midst of a bush. He looked, and behold, the bush was burning, yet it was not consumed.
Exodus 3:3 And Moses said, “I will turn aside to see this great sight, why the bush is not burned.”
Exodus 3:4 When the LORD saw that he turned aside to see, out of the bush, “Moses, Moses!” And he said, “Here I am.”
Exodus 3:5 Then he said, “Do not come near; take your sandals off your feet, for the place on which you are standing is holy ground.”
Exodus 3:6 And he said, he was afraid to look at God.
Exodus 3:7 Then the LORD said, taskmasters. I know their sufferings,
Exodus 3:8 and the Canaanites, the Hittites, the Amorites, the Perizzites, the Hivites, and the Jebusites.
Exodus 3:9 And now, behold, oppression with which the Egyptians oppress them.
Exodus 3:10  Come, I will send you to Pharaoh that you may bring my people, the children of Israel, out of Egypt.”
Exodus 3:11 But Moses said to God, “Who am I that I should go to Pharaoh and bring the children of Israel out of Egypt?”
Exodus 3:12 He said, you shall serve God on this mountain.”
Exodus 3:13 Then Moses said to God, “If I come to the people of Israel and say to them, ‘The God of your fathers has sent me to you,’ and they ask me, ‘What is his name?’ what shall I say to them?”
Exodus 3:14 God said to Moses, “I AM WHO I AM.” ‘I AM has sent me to you.’”
Exodus 3:15 God also said to Moses, “Say this to the people of Israel: ‘The LORD, my name forever, and thus I am to be remembered throughout all generations.
Exodus 3:16 Go and “I have observed you and what has been done to you in Egypt,
Exodus 3:17 and I promise that flowing with milk and honey.”’
Exodus 3:18 And met with us; and now, please let us go a three days' journey into the wilderness, that we may sacrifice to the LORD our God.’
Exodus 3:19 But I know that the king of Egypt
Exodus 3:20 So after that he will let you go.
Exodus 3:21 And I will give this people favor in the sight of the Egyptians; and when you go, you shall not go empty,
Exodus 3:22 but each woman shall ask of her neighbor, and any woman who lives in her house, for you shall plunder the Egyptians.”
Exodus 4:1 Then Moses answered, “But behold, they will not believe me or listen to my voice, for they will say, ‘The LORD did not appear to you.’”
Exodus 4:2 The LORD said to him, “What is that in your hand?” He said, “A staff.”
Exodus 4:3 And he said, “Throw it on the ground.” So he threw it on the ground, and it became a serpent, and Moses ran from it.
Exodus 4:4 But the LORD said to Moses, “Put out your hand and catch it by the tail” — so he put out his hand and caught it, and it became a staff in his hand —
Exodus 4:5 “that they may the God of their fathers, the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob, has appeared to you.”
Exodus 4:6 Again, the LORD said to him, “Put your hand inside your cloak.”  like snow.
Exodus 4:7 Then God said, “Put your hand back inside your cloak.” So he put his hand back inside his cloak, and when he took it out, behold, it was restored like the rest of his flesh.
Exodus 4:8 “If they will not believe you,” God said, “or listen to the first sign, they may believe the latter sign.
Exodus 4:9 If they will not believe even these two signs or listen to your voice, you shall take some water from the Nile and pour it on the dry ground, and the water that you shall take from the Nile will become blood on the dry ground.”
Exodus 4:10 But Moses said to the LORD, “Oh, my Lord, I am not eloquent, either in the past or since you have spoken to your servant, but I am slow of speech and of tongue.”
Exodus 4:11 Then the LORD said to him, “Who has made man's mouth? Who makes him mute, or deaf, or seeing, or blind? Is it not I, the LORD?
Exodus 4:12 Now therefore go, and I will be with your mouth and teach you what you shall speak.”
Exodus 4:13 But he said, “Oh, my Lord, please send someone else.”
Exodus 4:14 Then the anger of the LORD was kindled against Moses and he said, “Is there not Aaron, your brother, the Levite? I know that he can speak well. Behold, he is coming out to meet you, and when he sees you, he will be glad in his heart.
Exodus 4:15  I will be with your mouth and with his mouth and will teach you both what to do.
Exodus 4:16  you shall be as God to him.
Exodus 4:17 And take in your hand this staff, with which you shall do the signs.”
Exodus 4:18 Moses went back to Jethro his father-in-law and said to him, “Please let me go back to my brothers in Egypt to see whether they are still alive.” And Jethro said to Moses, “Go in peace.”
Exodus 4:19 And the LORD said to Moses in Midian, “Go back to Egypt, for all the men who were seeking your life are dead.”
Exodus 4:20 So Moses took the staff of God in his hand.
Exodus 4:21 And the LORD said to Moses, “When you go back to Egypt, see that you do before Pharaoh all the I will harden his heart, so that he will not let the people go.
Exodus 4:22 Then you shall say to Pharaoh, ‘Thus says the LORD, firstborn son,
Exodus 4:23 and I say to you, “Let my son go that he may serve me.” If you refuse to let him go, behold, I will kill your firstborn son.’”
Exodus 4:24 At a lodging place on the way sought to put him to death.
Exodus 4:25 Then  feet with it and said, “Surely you are a bridegroom of blood to me!”
Exodus 4:26 So he let him alone. It was then that she said, “A bridegroom of blood,” because of the circumcision.
Exodus 4:27 The LORD said to Aaron, “Go into the wilderness mountain of God and kissed him.
Exodus 4:28 And Moses the signs that he had commanded him to do.
Exodus 4:29 Then Moses and Aaron went and gathered together all the elders of the people of Israel.
Exodus 4:30  Aaron spoke all the words that the LORD had spoken to Moses and did the signs in the sight of the people.
Exodus 4:31 And the people they bowed their heads and worshiped.
Exodus 5:1 Afterward Moses and Aaron went and said to Pharaoh, “Thus says the LORD, the God of Israel, ‘Let my people go, that they may hold a feast to me in the wilderness.’”
Exodus 5:2 But Pharaoh said, I will not let Israel go.”
Exodus 5:3 Then they said, “The God of the Hebrews has met with us. Please let us go a three days' journey into the wilderness that we may sacrifice to the LORD our God, lest he fall upon us with pestilence or with the sword.”
Exodus 5:4 But the king of Egypt said to them, “Moses and Aaron, why do you take the people away from their work? Get back to your burdens.”
Exodus 5:5 And Pharaoh said, “Behold,  and you make them rest from their burdens!”
Exodus 5:6 The same day Pharaoh commanded the foremen,
Exodus 5:7 “You shall no longer give the people straw to make bricks, as in the past; let them go and gather straw for themselves.
Exodus 5:8 But the number of bricks that they made in the past you shall impose on them, you shall by no means reduce it, for they are idle. Therefore they cry, ‘Let us go and offer sacrifice to our God.’
Exodus 5:9 Let heavier work be laid on the men that they may labor at it and pay no regard to lying words.”
Exodus 5:10 So the taskmasters and the foremen of the people went out and said to the people, “Thus says Pharaoh, ‘I will not give you straw.
Exodus 5:11 Go and get your straw yourselves wherever you can find it, but your work will not be reduced in the least.’”
Exodus 5:12 So the people were scattered throughout all the land of Egypt to gather stubble for straw.
Exodus 5:13 The taskmasters were urgent, saying, “Complete your work, your daily task each day, as when there was straw.”
Exodus 5:14 And the foremen of the people of Israel, whom Pharaoh's taskmasters had set over them, were beaten and were asked, “Why have you not done all your task of making bricks today and yesterday, as in the past?”
Exodus 5:15 Then the foremen of the people of Israel came and cried to Pharaoh, “Why do you treat your servants like this?
Exodus 5:16 No straw is given to your servants, yet they say to us, ‘Make bricks!’ And behold, your servants are beaten; but the fault is in your own people.”
Exodus 5:17 But he said, “You are idle, you are idle; that is why you say, ‘Let us go and sacrifice to the LORD.’
Exodus 5:18 Go now and work. No straw will be given you, but you must still deliver the same number of bricks.”
Exodus 5:19 The foremen of the people of Israel saw that they were in trouble when they said, “You shall by no means reduce your number of bricks, your daily task each day.”
Exodus 5:20 They met Moses and Aaron, who were waiting for them, as they came out from Pharaoh;
Exodus 5:21 and they said to them, “The LORD look on you and judge, because you have made us stink in the sight of Pharaoh and his servants, and have put a sword in their hand to kill us.”
Exodus 5:22 Then Moses turned to the LORD and said, “O Lord, why have you done evil to this people? Why did you ever send me?
Exodus 5:23 For since I came to Pharaoh to speak in your name, he has done evil to this people, and you have not delivered your people at all.”
Exodus 6:1 But the LORD said to Moses, “Now you shall see what I will do to Pharaoh; for with a strong hand he will send them out, and with drive them out of his land.”
Exodus 6:2 God spoke to Moses and said to him, “I am the LORD.
Exodus 6:3 I appeared to Abraham, to Isaac, and to Jacob, as LORD I did not make myself known to them.
Exodus 6:4  to give them the land of Canaan, the land in which they lived as sojourners.
Exodus 6:5 Moreover, I have heard the groaning of the people of Israel whom the Egyptians hold as slaves, and I have remembered my covenant.
Exodus 6:6 Say therefore to the people of Israel, I will redeem you with an outstretched arm and with great acts of judgment.
Exodus 6:7 I from under the burdens of the Egyptians.
Exodus 6:8 I will bring you into I am the LORD.’”
Exodus 6:9 Moses spoke thus to the people of Israel, but they did not listen to Moses, because of their broken spirit and harsh slavery.
Exodus 6:10 So the LORD said to Moses,
Exodus 6:11 “Go in, tell Pharaoh king of Egypt to let the people of Israel go out of his land.”
Exodus 6:12 But Moses said to the LORD, “Behold, the people of Israel have I am of uncircumcised lips?”
Exodus 6:13 But the LORD spoke to Moses and Aaron and gave them a charge about the people of Israel and about Pharaoh king of Egypt: to bring the people of Israel out of the land of Egypt.
Exodus 6:14 These are the heads of their fathers' houses: the sons of Reuben, the firstborn of Israel: Hanoch, Pallu, Hezron, and Carmi; these are the clans of Reuben.
Exodus 6:15 The sons of Simeon: Jemuel, Jamin, Ohad, Jachin, Zohar, and Shaul, the son of a Canaanite woman; these are the clans of Simeon.
Exodus 6:16 These are the names of the sons of Levi according to their generations: Gershon, Kohath, and Merari, the years of the life of Levi being 137 years.
Exodus 6:17 The sons of Gershon: Libni and Shimei, by their clans.
Exodus 6:18 The sons of Kohath: Amram, Izhar, Hebron, and Uzziel, the years of the life of Kohath being 133 years.
Exodus 6:19 The sons of Merari: Mahli and Mushi. These are the clans of the Levites according to their generations.
Exodus 6:20  Amram took as his wife Jochebed his father's sister, and she bore him Aaron and Moses, the years of the life of Amram being 137 years.
Exodus 6:21  The sons of Izhar: Korah, Nepheg, and Zichri.
Exodus 6:22 The sons of Uzziel: Mishael, Elzaphan, and Sithri.
Exodus 6:23 Aaron took as his wife Elisheba, the daughter of Nadab, Abihu, Eleazar, and Ithamar.
Exodus 6:24 The sons of Korah: Assir, Elkanah, and Abiasaph; these are the clans of the Korahites.
Exodus 6:25 Eleazar, Aaron's son, took as his wife one of the daughters of Putiel, and she bore him Phinehas. These are the heads of the fathers' houses of the Levites by their clans.
Exodus 6:26 These are the Aaron and Moses by their hosts.”
Exodus 6:27 It was they who spoke to Pharaoh king of Egypt about bringing out the people of Israel from Egypt, this Moses and this Aaron.
Exodus 6:28 On the day when the LORD spoke to Moses in the land of Egypt,
Exodus 6:29 the LORD said to Moses, tell Pharaoh king of Egypt all that I say to you.”
Exodus 6:30 But Moses said to the LORD, “Behold, I am of uncircumcised lips. How will Pharaoh listen to me?”
Exodus 7:1 And the LORD said to Moses, “See, I have made you like prophet.
Exodus 7:2  You shall speak all that I command you, and your brother Aaron shall tell Pharaoh to let the people of Israel go out of his land.
Exodus 7:3 But multiply my signs and wonders in the land of Egypt,
Exodus 7:4 Pharaoh will not listen to you. Then I will lay my hand on Egypt and bring my hosts, my people the children of Israel, out of the land of Egypt by great acts of judgment.
Exodus 7:5 The Egyptians shall know that I am the LORD, when I stretch out my hand against Egypt and bring out the people of Israel from among them.”
Exodus 7:6 Moses and Aaron did so; they did just as the LORD commanded them.
Exodus 7:7 Now Moses was eighty years old, and Aaron eighty-three years old, when they spoke to Pharaoh.
Exodus 7:8 Then the LORD said to Moses and Aaron,
Exodus 7:9 “When Pharaoh says to you, ‘Prove yourselves by working a miracle,’ then you shall say to Aaron, ‘Take your staff and cast it down before Pharaoh, that it may become a serpent.’”
Exodus 7:10 So Moses and Aaron went to Pharaoh and did just as the LORD commanded. Aaron cast down his staff before Pharaoh and his servants, and it became a serpent.
Exodus 7:11 Then Pharaoh summoned the wise men and the sorcerers, and they, the did the same by their secret arts.
Exodus 7:12 For each man cast down his staff, and they became serpents. But Aaron's staff swallowed up their staffs.
Exodus 7:13 Still as the LORD had said.
Exodus 7:14 Then the LORD said to Moses, “Pharaoh's heart is hardened; he refuses to let the people go.
Exodus 7:15  serpent.
Exodus 7:16 And you shall say to him, ‘The that they may serve me in the wilderness.” But so far, you have not obeyed.
Exodus 7:17 Thus says the LORD, “By this it shall turn into blood.
Exodus 7:18 The fish in the Nile shall die, and the Nile will stink, and the Egyptians will grow weary of drinking water from the Nile.”’”
Exodus 7:19 And the LORD said to Moses, “Say to Aaron, ‘Take your staff and stretch out your hand over the waters of Egypt, over their rivers, their canals, and their ponds, and all their pools of water, so that they may become blood, and there shall be blood throughout all the land of Egypt, even in vessels of wood and in vessels of stone.’”
Exodus 7:20 Moses and Aaron did as the LORD commanded. In the sight of Pharaoh and in the sight of his servants he water in the Nile turned into blood.
Exodus 7:21 And the fish in the Nile died, and the Nile stank, so that the Egyptians could not drink water from the Nile. There was blood throughout all the land of Egypt.
Exodus 7:22 But the LORD had said.
Exodus 7:23 Pharaoh turned and went into his house, and he did not take even this to heart.
Exodus 7:24 And all the Egyptians dug along the Nile for water to drink, for they could not drink the water of the Nile.
Exodus 7:25 Seven full days passed after the LORD had struck the Nile.
Exodus 8:1  they may serve me.
Exodus 8:2 But if you frogs.
Exodus 8:3 The Nile shall swarm with frogs that shall come up into your house and into  and into your ovens and your kneading bowls.
Exodus 8:4 The frogs shall come up on you and on your people and on all your servants.”’”
Exodus 8:5  ‘Stretch out your hand with your staff over the rivers, over the canals and over the pools, and make frogs come up on the land of Egypt!’”
Exodus 8:6 So Aaron stretched out his hand over the waters of Egypt, and the frogs came up and covered the land of Egypt.
Exodus 8:7 But the magicians did the same by their secret arts and made frogs come up on the land of Egypt.
Exodus 8:8 Then Pharaoh called Moses and Aaron and said, I will let the people go to sacrifice to the LORD.”
Exodus 8:9 Moses said to Pharaoh, “Be pleased to command me when I am to plead for you and for your servants and for your people, that the frogs be cut off from you and your houses and be left only in the Nile.”
Exodus 8:10 And he said, “Tomorrow.” Moses said, “Be it as you say, so there is no one like the LORD our God.
Exodus 8:11 The frogs shall go away from you and your houses and your servants and your people. They shall be left only in the Nile.”
Exodus 8:12 So Moses and Aaron went out from Pharaoh, and Moses cried to the LORD about the frogs, as he had agreed with Pharaoh.
Exodus 8:13 And the LORD did according to the word of Moses. The frogs died out in the houses, the courtyards, and the fields.
Exodus 8:14 And they gathered them together in heaps, and the land stank.
Exodus 8:15 But when Pharaoh saw that there was a hardened his heart and would not listen to them, as the LORD had said.
Exodus 8:16 Then the LORD said to Moses, “Say to Aaron, ‘Stretch out your staff and strike the dust of the earth, so that it may become gnats in all the land of Egypt.’”
Exodus 8:17 And they did so. Aaron stretched out his hand with his staff and struck the dust of the earth, and there were gnats on man and beast. All the dust of the earth became gnats in all the land of Egypt.
Exodus 8:18 The magicians tried by their secret arts to produce gnats, but they could not. So there were gnats on man and beast.
Exodus 8:19 Then the magicians said to Pharaoh, “This is the finger of God.” But Pharaoh's heart was hardened, and he would not listen to them, as the LORD had said.
Exodus 8:20 Then the LORD said to Moses, “Let my people go, that they may serve me.
Exodus 8:21 Or else, if you will not let my people go, behold, I will send swarms of flies on you and your servants and your people, and into your houses. And the houses of the Egyptians shall be filled with swarms of flies, and also the ground on which they stand.
Exodus 8:22 But on that day
Exodus 8:23 Thus I will put a division  between my people and your people. Tomorrow this sign shall happen.”’”
Exodus 8:24 And the LORD did so. There came great swarms of flies into the house of Pharaoh and into his servants' houses. Throughout all the land of Egypt the land was ruined by the swarms of flies.
Exodus 8:25 Then Pharaoh called Moses and Aaron and said, “Go, sacrifice to your God within the land.”
Exodus 8:26 But Moses said, “It would not be right to do so, for the offerings we shall sacrifice to the LORD our God are an abominable to the Egyptians before their eyes, will they not stone us?
Exodus 8:27 We must go as he tells us.”
Exodus 8:28 So Pharaoh said, “I will let you go to sacrifice to the LORD your God in the wilderness; only you must not go very far away. Plead for me.”
Exodus 8:29 Then Moses said, “Behold, I am going out from you and I will plead with the LORD that the swarms of flies may depart from Pharaoh, from his servants, and from his people, tomorrow. Only let not Pharaoh cheat again by not letting the people go to sacrifice to the LORD.”
Exodus 8:30 So Moses went out from Pharaoh and prayed to the LORD.
Exodus 8:31 And the LORD did as Moses asked, and removed the swarms of flies from Pharaoh, from his servants, and from his people; not one remained.
Exodus 8:32 But Pharaoh hardened his heart this time also, and did not let the people go.
Exodus 9:1 Then the LORD said to Moses, the LORD, the God of the Hebrews, “Let my people go, that they may serve me.
Exodus 9:2 For if you refuse to let them go and still hold them,
Exodus 9:3 behold, the hand of the LORD will fall with a very severe plague upon your livestock that are in the field, the horses, the donkeys, the camels, the herds, and the flocks.
Exodus 9:4  But the LORD will make a distinction between the livestock of Israel and the livestock of Egypt, so that nothing of all that belongs to the people of Israel shall die.”’”
Exodus 9:5 And the LORD set a time, saying, “Tomorrow the LORD will do this thing in the land.”
Exodus 9:6 And the next day the LORD did this thing. All the livestock of the Egyptians died, but not one of the livestock of the people of Israel died.
Exodus 9:7 And Pharaoh sent, and behold, not one of the livestock of Israel was dead. But the heart of Pharaoh was hardened, and he did not let the people go.
Exodus 9:8 And the LORD said to Moses and Aaron, “Take handfuls of soot from the kiln, and let Moses throw them in the air in the sight of Pharaoh.
Exodus 9:9 It shall become fine dust over all the land of Egypt, and become boils breaking out in sores on man and beast throughout all the land of Egypt.”
Exodus 9:10 So they took soot from the kiln and stood before Pharaoh. And Moses threw it in the air, and it became boils breaking out in sores on man and beast.
Exodus 9:11 And the magicians could not stand before Moses because of the boils, for the boils came upon the magicians and upon all the Egyptians.
Exodus 9:12  the LORD had spoken to Moses.
Exodus 9:13 Then the LORD said to Moses, “Rise up early in the morning and present yourself before Pharaoh and say to him, ‘Thus says the LORD, the God of the Hebrews, “Let my people go, that they may serve me.
Exodus 9:14 For this time I will send all my plagues on you yourself, that you may know that there is none like me in all the earth.
Exodus 9:15 For by now I could have put out my hand and struck you and your people with pestilence, and you would have been cut off from the earth.
Exodus 9:16  that my name may be proclaimed in all the earth.
Exodus 9:17  You are still exalting yourself against my people and will not let them go.
Exodus 9:18 Behold, about this time tomorrow I will cause very heavy hail to fall, such as never has been in Egypt from the day it was founded until now.
Exodus 9:19 Now therefore send, get your livestock and all that you have in the field into safe shelter, for every man and beast that is in the field and is not brought home will die when the hail falls on them.”’”
Exodus 9:20 Then whoever feared the word of the LORD among the servants of Pharaoh hurried his slaves and his livestock into the houses,
Exodus 9:21 but whoever did not pay attention to the word of the LORD left his slaves and his livestock in the field.
Exodus 9:22 Then the LORD said to Moses, “Stretch out your hand toward heaven, so that there may be hail in all the land of Egypt, on man and beast and every plant of the field, in the land of Egypt.”
Exodus 9:23 Then Moses stretched out his staff toward heaven, and the LORD sent thunder and hail, and fire ran down to the earth. And the LORD rained hail upon the land of Egypt.
Exodus 9:24 There was hail and fire flashing continually in the midst of the hail, very heavy hail, such as had never been in all the land of Egypt since it became a nation.
Exodus 9:25 The hail struck down everything that was in the field in all the land of Egypt, both man and beast. And the hail struck down every plant of the field and broke every tree of the field.
Exodus 9:26  Only in the land of Goshen, where the people of Israel were, was there no hail.
Exodus 9:27 Then Pharaoh sent and called Moses and Aaron and said to them, “This time LORD is in the right, and I and my people are in the wrong.
Exodus 9:28  Plead with the LORD, for there has been enough of God's thunder and hail. I will let you go, and you shall stay no longer.”
Exodus 9:29 Moses said to him, “As soon as I have gone out of the city, the earth is the LORD's.
Exodus 9:30 But as for you and your servants, I know that you do not yet fear the LORD God.”
Exodus 9:31 (The flax and the barley were struck down, for the barley was in the ear and the flax was in bud.
Exodus 9:32 But the wheat and the emmer  were not struck down, for they are late in coming up.)
Exodus 9:33 So Moses went out of the city from Pharaoh and stretched out his hands to the LORD, and the thunder and the hail ceased, and the rain no longer poured upon the earth.
Exodus 9:34 But when Pharaoh saw that the rain and the hail and the thunder had ceased, he sinned yet again and he and his servants.
Exodus 9:35 So the heart of Pharaoh was hardened, and he did not let the people of Israel go, just as the LORD had spoken through Moses.
Exodus 10:1 Then the LORD said to Moses, “Go in to Pharaoh, for I have hardened his heart and the heart of his servants, that I may show these signs of mine among them,
Exodus 10:2 and that you may know that I am the LORD.”
Exodus 10:3 So Moses and Aaron went in to Pharaoh and said to him, “Thus says the LORD, the God of the Hebrews, ‘How long will you refuse to humble yourself before me? Let my people go, that they may serve me.
Exodus 10:4 For if you refuse to let my people go, behold, tomorrow I will bring locusts into your country,
Exodus 10:5 and they shall cover the face of the land, so that no one can see the land. And they shall eat what is left to you after the hail, and they shall eat every tree of yours that grows in the field,
Exodus 10:6 and they shall fill your houses and the houses of all your servants and of all the Egyptians, as neither your fathers nor your grandfathers have seen, from the day they came on earth to this day.’” Then he turned and went out from Pharaoh.
Exodus 10:7 Then Pharaoh's servants said to him, “How long shall this man be a snare to us? Let the men go, that they may serve the LORD their God. Do you not yet understand that Egypt is ruined?”
Exodus 10:8 So Moses and Aaron were brought back to Pharaoh. And he said to them, “Go, serve the LORD your God. But which ones are to go?”
Exodus 10:9 Moses said, “We will go with our young and our old. We will go with our sons and daughters and with our flocks and herds, for we must hold a feast to the LORD.”
Exodus 10:10 But he said to them, “The LORD be with you, if ever I let you and your
Exodus 10:11 No! Go, the men among you, and serve the LORD, for that is what you are asking.” And they were driven out from Pharaoh's presence.
Exodus 10:12 Then the LORD said to Moses, eat every plant in the land, all that the hail has left.”
Exodus 10:13 So Moses stretched out his staff over the land of Egypt, and the LORD brought an east wind upon the land all that day and all that night. When it was morning, the east wind had brought the locusts.
Exodus 10:14  such a dense swarm of locusts as had never been before, nor ever will be again.
Exodus 10:15 They covered the face of the whole land, so that the land was darkened, and they ate all the plants in the land and all the fruit of the trees that the hail had left. Not a green thing remained, neither tree nor plant of the field, through all the land of Egypt.
Exodus 10:16 Then Pharaoh hastily called Moses and Aaron and said, “I have sinned against the LORD your God, and against you.
Exodus 10:17 Now therefore, forgive my sin, please, only this once, and plead with the LORD your God only to remove this death from me.”
Exodus 10:18 So he went out from Pharaoh and pleaded with the LORD.
Exodus 10:19 And the LORD turned the wind into a very strong west wind, which lifted the locusts and drove them into the Red Sea. Not a single locust was left in all the country of Egypt.
Exodus 10:20 But the LORD hardened Pharaoh's heart, and he did not let the people of Israel go.
Exodus 10:21 Then the LORD said to Moses, darkness over the land of Egypt, a darkness to be felt.”
Exodus 10:22 So Moses stretched out his hand toward heaven, and there was pitch darkness in all the land of Egypt three days.
Exodus 10:23 They did not see one another, nor did anyone rise from his place for three days, but all the people of Israel had light where they lived.
Exodus 10:24 Then Pharaoh called Moses and said, your little ones also may go with you; only let your flocks and your herds remain behind.”
Exodus 10:25 But Moses said, “You must also let us have sacrifices and burnt offerings, that we may sacrifice to the LORD our God.
Exodus 10:26 Our livestock also must go with us; not a hoof shall be left behind, for we must take of them to serve the LORD our God, and we do not know with what we must serve the LORD until we arrive there.”
Exodus 10:27 But the LORD hardened Pharaoh's heart, and he would not let them go.
Exodus 10:28 Then Pharaoh said to him, “Get away from me; take care never to see my face again, for on the day you see my face you shall die.”
Exodus 10:29 Moses said, “As you say! I will not see your face again.”
Exodus 11:1 The LORD said to Moses, “Yet When he lets you go, he will drive you away completely.
Exodus 11:2 Speak now in the hearing of the people, that they ask, every man of his neighbor and every woman of her neighbor, for silver and gold jewelry.”
Exodus 11:3  And the LORD gave the people favor in the sight of the Egyptians. Moreover, the man Moses was very great in the land of Egypt, in the sight of Pharaoh's servants and in the sight of the people.
Exodus 11:4 So Moses said, “Thus says the LORD: ‘About midnight I will go out in the midst of Egypt,
Exodus 11:5 and every firstborn in the land of Egypt shall die, from the firstborn of Pharaoh who sits on his throne, even to the firstborn of the slave girl who is behind the handmill, and all the firstborn of the cattle.
Exodus 11:6  There shall be a great cry throughout all the land of Egypt, such as there has never been, nor ever will be again.
Exodus 11:7 But not a dog shall growl makes a distinction between Egypt and Israel.’
Exodus 11:8 And all these your servants shall come down to me and bow down to me, saying, ‘Get out, you and all the people who follow you.’ And after that I will go out.” And he went out from Pharaoh in hot anger.
Exodus 11:9 Then the LORD said to Moses, my wonders may be multiplied in the land of Egypt.”
Exodus 11:10 Moses and Aaron did all these wonders before Pharaoh, and the LORD hardened Pharaoh's heart, and he did not let the people of Israel go out of his land.
Exodus 12:1 The LORD said to Moses and Aaron in the land of Egypt,
Exodus 12:2  “This month shall be for you the beginning of months. It shall be the first month of the year for you.
Exodus 12:3 Tell all the congregation of Israel that on the tenth day of this month every man shall take a lamb according to their fathers' houses, a lamb for a household.
Exodus 12:4 And if the household is too small for a lamb, then he and his nearest neighbor shall take according to the number of persons; according to what each can eat you shall make your count for the lamb.
Exodus 12:5 Your lamb shall be without blemish, a male a year old. You may take it from the sheep or from the goats,
Exodus 12:6 and you shall keep it until the
Exodus 12:7 “Then they shall take some of the blood and put it on the two doorposts and the lintel of the houses in which they eat it.
Exodus 12:8 They shall eat the flesh that night, roasted on the fire; with unleavened bread and bitter herbs they shall eat it.
Exodus 12:9 Do not eat any of it raw or boiled in water, but roasted, its head with its legs and its inner parts.
Exodus 12:10 And you shall let none of it remain until the morning; anything that remains until the morning you shall burn.
Exodus 12:11 In this manner you shall eat it: with It is the LORD's Passover.
Exodus 12:12 For I am the LORD.
Exodus 12:13  The blood shall be a sign for you, on the houses where you are. And when I see the blood, I will pass over you, and no plague will befall you to destroy you, when I strike the land of Egypt.
Exodus 12:14 “This day shall be statute forever, you shall keep it as a feast.
Exodus 12:15  that person shall be cut off from Israel.
Exodus 12:16 On the first day you shall hold a holy assembly, and on the seventh day a holy assembly. No work shall be done on those days. But what everyone needs to eat, that alone may be prepared by you.
Exodus 12:17 And you shall observe the Feast of Unleavened Bread, for hosts out of the land of Egypt. Therefore you shall observe this day, throughout your generations, as a statute forever.
Exodus 12:18  In the first month, from the fourteenth day of the month at evening, you shall eat unleavened bread until the twenty-first day of the month at evening.
Exodus 12:19  whether he is a sojourner or a native of the land.
Exodus 12:20 You shall eat nothing leavened; in all your dwelling places you shall eat unleavened bread.”
Exodus 12:21 Then Moses called all the elders of Israel and said to them, “Go and select lambs for yourselves according to your clans, and kill the Passover lamb.
Exodus 12:22 Take a bunch of None of you shall go out of the door of his house until the morning.
Exodus 12:23  will not allow the destroyer to enter your houses to strike you.
Exodus 12:24 You shall observe this rite as a statute for you and for your sons forever.
Exodus 12:25 And when you come to the land that the LORD will give you, as he has promised, you shall keep this service.
Exodus 12:26 And when your children say to you, ‘What do you mean by this service?’
Exodus 12:27 you shall say, bowed their heads and worshiped.
Exodus 12:28 Then the people of Israel went and did so; as the LORD had commanded Moses and Aaron, so they did.
Exodus 12:29  from the firstborn of Pharaoh who sat on his throne to the firstborn of the captive who was in the dungeon, and all the firstborn of the livestock.
Exodus 12:30 And Pharaoh rose up in the night, he and all his servants and all the Egyptians. And there was a great cry in Egypt, for there was not a house where someone was not dead.
Exodus 12:31 Then he summoned Moses and Aaron by night and said, “Up, go out from among my people, both you and the people of Israel; and go, serve the LORD, as you have said.
Exodus 12:32  Take your flocks and your herds, as you have said, and be gone, and bless me also!”
Exodus 12:33  The Egyptians were urgent with the people to send them out of the land in haste. For they said, “We shall all be dead.”
Exodus 12:34 So the people took their dough before it was leavened, their kneading bowls being bound up in their cloaks on their shoulders.
Exodus 12:35 The people of Israel had also done as Moses told them, for they had asked the Egyptians for silver and gold jewelry and for clothing.
Exodus 12:36  they let them have what they asked. Thus they plundered the Egyptians.
Exodus 12:37 And the about six hundred thousand men on foot, besides women and children.
Exodus 12:38 A mixed multitude also went up with them, and very much livestock, both flocks and herds.
Exodus 12:39 And they baked unleavened cakes of the dough that they had brought out of Egypt, for it was not leavened, because could not wait, nor had they prepared any provisions for themselves.
Exodus 12:40 The time that the people of Israel lived in Egypt was 430 years.
Exodus 12:41 At the end of 430 years, on that very day, all the hosts of the LORD went out from the land of Egypt.
Exodus 12:42 It was a night of watching by the LORD, to bring them out of the land of Egypt; so this same night is a night of watching kept to the LORD by all the people of Israel throughout their generations.
Exodus 12:43 And the LORD said to Moses and Aaron, “This is the statute of the Passover: no foreigner shall eat of it,
Exodus 12:44 but every slave bought for money may eat of it after you have circumcised him.
Exodus 12:45  No foreigner or hired worker may eat of it.
Exodus 12:46 It shall be eaten in one house; you shall not take any of the flesh outside the house, and you shall not break any of its bones.
Exodus 12:47  All the congregation of Israel shall keep it.
Exodus 12:48  shall be as a native of the land. But no uncircumcised person shall eat of it.
Exodus 12:49 There shall be stranger who sojourns among you.”
Exodus 12:50 All the people of Israel did just as the LORD commanded Moses and Aaron.
Exodus 12:51 And on that very day the hosts.
Exodus 13:1 The LORD said to Moses,
Exodus 13:2  “Consecrate to me all the firstborn. Whatever is the first to open the womb among the people of Israel, both of man and of beast, is mine.”
Exodus 13:3 Then Moses said to the people, No leavened bread shall be eaten.
Exodus 13:4 Today, in the month of Abib, you are going out.
Exodus 13:5 And when the LORD brings you into you shall keep this service in this month.
Exodus 13:6  Seven days you shall eat unleavened bread, and on the seventh day there shall be a feast to the LORD.
Exodus 13:7 Unleavened bread shall be eaten for seven days; no leavened bread shall be seen with you, and no leaven shall be seen with you in all your territory.
Exodus 13:8  You shall tell your son on that day, ‘It is because of what the LORD did for me when I came out of Egypt.’
Exodus 13:9 And it shall between your eyes, that the law of the LORD may be in your mouth. For with a strong hand the LORD has brought you out of Egypt.
Exodus 13:10  You shall therefore keep this statute at its appointed time from year to year.
Exodus 13:11 “When the LORD brings you into the land of the Canaanites, as he swore to you and your fathers, and shall give it to you,
Exodus 13:12  you shall set apart to the LORD all that first opens the womb. All the firstborn of your animals that are males shall be the LORD's.
Exodus 13:13  firstborn of man among your sons you shall redeem.
Exodus 13:14  slavery.
Exodus 13:15 For when Pharaoh stubbornly refused to let us go, the all the firstborn of my sons I redeem.’
Exodus 13:16  by a strong hand the LORD brought us out of Egypt.”
Exodus 13:17 When Pharaoh let the people go, God did change their minds when they see war and return to Egypt.”
Exodus 13:18 But God led the people around by the way of the wilderness toward the Red Sea. And the people of Israel went up out of the land of Egypt equipped for battle.
Exodus 13:19 Moses took the bones of Joseph with him, for Joseph “God will surely visit you, and you shall carry up my bones with you from here.”
Exodus 13:20 And they moved on from Succoth and encamped at Etham, on the edge of the wilderness.
Exodus 13:21 And the LORD went before them by day in a pillar of cloud to lead them along the way, and by night in a pillar of fire to give them light, that they might travel by day and by night.
Exodus 13:22 The pillar of cloud by day and the pillar of fire by night did not depart from before the people.
Exodus 14:1 Then the LORD said to Moses,
Exodus 14:2 “Tell the people of Israel to Migdol and the sea, in front of Baal-zephon; you shall encamp facing it, by the sea.
Exodus 14:3 For Pharaoh will say of the people of Israel, ‘They are wandering in the land; the wilderness has shut them in.’
Exodus 14:4 And and the Egyptians shall know that I am the LORD.” And they did so.
Exodus 14:5 When the king of Egypt was told that the people had fled, the mind of Pharaoh and his servants was changed toward the people, and they said, “What is this we have done, that we have let Israel go from serving us?”
Exodus 14:6 So he made ready his chariot and took his army with him,
Exodus 14:7 and took six hundred chosen chariots and all the other chariots of Egypt with officers over all of them.
Exodus 14:8 And the people of Israel were going out defiantly.
Exodus 14:9 The encamped at the sea, by Pi-hahiroth, in front of Baal-zephon.
Exodus 14:10 When Pharaoh drew near, the people of Israel lifted up their eyes, and behold, the Egyptians were marching after them, and they feared greatly. And the people of Israel cried out to the LORD.
Exodus 14:11 They said to Moses, “Is it because there are no graves in Egypt that you have taken us away to die in the wilderness? What have you done to us in bringing us out of Egypt?
Exodus 14:12 Is not this what we said to you in Egypt: ‘Leave us alone that we may serve the Egyptians’? For it would have been better for us to serve the Egyptians than to die in the wilderness.”
Exodus 14:13 And Moses said to the people, the Egyptians whom you see today, you shall never see again.
Exodus 14:14  to be silent.”
Exodus 14:15 The LORD said to Moses, “Why do you cry to me? Tell the people of Israel to go forward.
Exodus 14:16  stretch out your hand over the sea and divide it, that the people of Israel may go through the sea on dry ground.
Exodus 14:17 And I will get glory over Pharaoh and all his host, his chariots, and his horsemen.
Exodus 14:18 And the Egyptians when I have gotten glory over Pharaoh, his chariots, and his horsemen.”
Exodus 14:19  Then the angel of God who was going before the host of Israel moved and went behind them, and the pillar of cloud moved from before them and stood behind them,
Exodus 14:20 coming between the host of Egypt and the host of Israel. And there was the cloud and the darkness. And it lit up the night  without one coming near the other all night.
Exodus 14:21 Then Moses divided.
Exodus 14:22 And a wall to them on their right hand and on their left.
Exodus 14:23 The Egyptians pursued and went in after them into the midst of the sea, all Pharaoh's horses, his chariots, and his horsemen.
Exodus 14:24 And in the morning watch the LORD in the pillar of fire and of cloud looked down on the Egyptian forces and threw the Egyptian forces into a panic,
Exodus 14:25 clogging LORD fights for them against the Egyptians.”
Exodus 14:26 Then the LORD said to Moses, “Stretch out your hand over the sea, that the water may come back upon the Egyptians, upon their chariots, and upon their horsemen.”
Exodus 14:27   the Egyptians into the midst of the sea.
Exodus 14:28 The not one of them remained.
Exodus 14:29 But the people of Israel walked on dry ground through the sea, the waters being a wall to them on their right hand and on their left.
Exodus 14:30 Thus the LORD saved Israel that day from the hand of the Egyptians, and Israel saw the Egyptians dead on the seashore.
Exodus 14:31  believed in the LORD and in his servant Moses.
Exodus 15:1 Then Moses and the people of Israel  he has thrown into the sea.
Exodus 15:2  I will exalt him.
Exodus 15:3 The LORD isthe LORD is his name.
Exodus 15:4  officers were sunk in the Red Sea.
Exodus 15:5 The went down into the depths like a stone.
Exodus 15:6  shatters the enemy.
Exodus 15:7 In the consumes them like stubble.
Exodus 15:8 At the floods stood up in a heap; the deeps congealed in the heart of the sea.
Exodus 15:9 The enemy said, will divide the spoil, my desire shall have its fill of them. I will draw my sword; my hand shall destroy them.’
Exodus 15:10 You sea covered them; they sank like lead in the mighty waters.
Exodus 15:11  doing wonders?
Exodus 15:12 You stretched out your right hand; the earth swallowed them.
Exodus 15:13 “You have guided them by your strength to your holy abode.
Exodus 15:14  The peoples have heard; they tremble; pangs have seized the inhabitants of Philistia.
Exodus 15:15 Now are the chiefs of Edomall the inhabitants of Canaan have melted away.
Exodus 15:16 Terror and you have purchased.
Exodus 15:17 You will bring them in andthe sanctuary, O Lord, which your hands have established.
Exodus 15:18  The LORD will reign forever and ever.”
Exodus 15:19 For when the LORD brought back the waters of the sea upon them, but the people of Israel walked on dry ground in the midst of the sea.
Exodus 15:20 Then all the women went out after her with tambourines and dancing.
Exodus 15:21 And Miriam sang to them: “Sing to the LORD, for he has triumphed gloriously; the horse and his rider he has thrown into the sea.”
Exodus 15:22 Then Moses made Israel set out from the Red Sea, and they went into the wilderness of Shur. They went three days in the wilderness and found no water.
Exodus 15:23 When they came to
Exodus 15:24 And the people grumbled against Moses, saying, “What shall we drink?”
Exodus 15:25 And he tested them,
Exodus 15:26 saying, your healer.”
Exodus 15:27 Then they came to Elim, where there were twelve springs of water and seventy palm trees, and they encamped there by the water.
Exodus 16:1 They set out from Elim, and all the congregation of the people of Israel came to the wilderness of Sin, which is between Elim and Sinai, on the fifteenth day of the second month after they had departed from the land of Egypt.
Exodus 16:2 And the whole congregation of the people of Israel grumbled against Moses and Aaron in the wilderness,
Exodus 16:3 and the people of Israel said to them, when we sat by the meat pots and ate bread to the full, for you have brought us out into this wilderness to kill this whole assembly with hunger.”
Exodus 16:4 Then the LORD said to Moses, “Behold, I am about to rain test them, whether they will walk in my law or not.
Exodus 16:5 On the sixth day, when they prepare what they bring in, it will be twice as much as they gather daily.”
Exodus 16:6 So Moses and Aaron said to all the people of Israel, you shall know that it was the LORD who brought you out of the land of Egypt,
Exodus 16:7 and in the morning you shall see the what are we, that you grumble against us?”
Exodus 16:8 And Moses said, “When the LORD gives you in the evening meat to eat and in the morning bread to the full, because the LORD has heard your grumbling that you grumble against him — against us but against the LORD.”
Exodus 16:9 Then Moses ‘Come near before the LORD, for he has heard your grumbling.’”
Exodus 16:10 And as soon as Aaron spoke to the whole congregation of the people of Israel, they looked toward the wilderness, and behold, the glory of the LORD appeared in the cloud.
Exodus 16:11 And the LORD said to Moses,
Exodus 16:12 “I in the morning you shall be filled with bread. Then you shall know that I am the LORD your God.’”
Exodus 16:13 In the evening dew lay around the camp.
Exodus 16:14 And when the dew had gone up, there was on the face of the wilderness a fine, flake-like thing, fine as frost on the ground.
Exodus 16:15 When the people of Israel saw it, they said to one another, “It is the bread that the LORD has given you to eat.
Exodus 16:16 This is what the LORD has commanded: ‘Gather of it, each one of you, as much as he can eat. You shall each take an  according to the number of the persons that each of you has in his tent.’”
Exodus 16:17 And the people of Israel did so. They gathered, some more, some less.
Exodus 16:18 But when they measured it with an omer, whoever gathered much had nothing left over, and whoever gathered little had no lack. Each of them gathered as much as he could eat.
Exodus 16:19 And Moses said to them, “Let no one leave any of it over till the morning.”
Exodus 16:20 But they did not listen to Moses. Some left part of it till the morning, and it bred worms and stank. And Moses was angry with them.
Exodus 16:21 Morning by morning they gathered it, each as much as he could eat; but when the sun grew hot, it melted.
Exodus 16:22 On the sixth day they gathered twice as much bread, two omers each. And when all the leaders of the congregation came and told Moses,
Exodus 16:23 he said to them, “This is what the LORD has commanded: ‘Tomorrow is a day of solemn rest, a holy Sabbath to the LORD; bake what you will bake and boil what you will boil, and all that is left over lay aside to be kept till the morning.’”
Exodus 16:24 So they laid it aside till the morning, as Moses commanded them, and it did not stink, and there were no worms in it.
Exodus 16:25 Moses said, “Eat it today, for today is a Sabbath to the LORD; today you will not find it in the field.
Exodus 16:26 Six days you shall gather it, but on the seventh day, which is a Sabbath, there will be none.”
Exodus 16:27 On the seventh day some of the people went out to gather, but they found none.
Exodus 16:28 And the LORD said to Moses, “How long will you refuse to keep my commandments and my laws?
Exodus 16:29 See! The LORD has given you the Sabbath; therefore on the sixth day he gives you bread for two days. Remain each of you in his place; let no one go out of his place on the seventh day.”
Exodus 16:30 So the people rested on the seventh day.
Exodus 16:31 Now the house of Israel called its name like coriander seed, white, and the taste of it was like wafers made with honey.
Exodus 16:32 Moses said, “This is what the LORD has commanded: ‘Let an omer of it be kept throughout your generations, so that they may see the bread with which I fed you in the wilderness, when I brought you out of the land of Egypt.’”
Exodus 16:33 And Moses said to Aaron, “Take a jar, and put an omer of manna in it, and place it before the LORD to be kept throughout your generations.”
Exodus 16:34 As the LORD commanded Moses, so Aaron placed it before the testimony to be kept.
Exodus 16:35 The people of Israel they came to the border of the land of Canaan.
Exodus 16:36 (An omer is
Exodus 17:1  All the congregation of the people of Israel moved on from the wilderness of Sin by stages, according to the commandment of the LORD, and camped at Rephidim, but there was no water for the people to drink.
Exodus 17:2  test the LORD?”
Exodus 17:3 But the people thirsted there for water, and the people grumbled against Moses and said, “Why did you bring us up out of Egypt, to kill us and our children and our livestock with thirst?”
Exodus 17:4 So Moses cried to the LORD, “What shall I do with this people? They are almost ready to stone me.”
Exodus 17:5 And the LORD said to Moses, “Pass on before the people, taking with you some of the elders of Israel, and take in your hand the staff with which you struck the Nile, and go.
Exodus 17:6  Behold, I will stand before you there on the rock at Horeb, and you shall strike the rock, and water shall come out of it, and the people will drink.” And Moses did so, in the sight of the elders of Israel.
Exodus 17:7 And he called the name of the place  because of the quarreling of the people of Israel, and because they tested the LORD by saying, “Is the LORD among us or not?”
Exodus 17:8  Then Amalek came and fought with Israel at Rephidim.
Exodus 17:9 So Moses said to the staff of God in my hand.”
Exodus 17:10 So Hur went up to the top of the hill.
Exodus 17:11 Whenever Moses held up his hand, Israel prevailed, and whenever he lowered his hand, Amalek prevailed.
Exodus 17:12 But Moses' hands grew weary, so they took a stone and put it under him, and he sat on it, while Aaron and Hur held up his hands, one on one side, and the other on the other side. So his hands were steady until the going down of the sun.
Exodus 17:13 And Joshua overwhelmed Amalek and his people with the sword.
Exodus 17:14 Then the LORD said to Moses, “Write this as a memorial in a book and recite it in the ears of I will utterly blot out the memory of Amalek from under heaven.”
Exodus 17:15 And Moses built an altar and called the name of it, The LORD Is My Banner,
Exodus 17:16 saying, “A hand upon the throne The LORD will have war with Amalek from generation to generation.”
Exodus 18:1  the priest of Midian, Moses' father-in-law, heard of all that God had done for Moses and for Israel his people, how the LORD had brought Israel out of Egypt.
Exodus 18:2 Now Jethro, Moses' father-in-law, had taken Zipporah, Moses' wife, after he had sent her home,
Exodus 18:3 along with her  in a foreign land”),
Exodus 18:4 and the name of the other, Eliezer  (for he said, “The God of my father was my help, and delivered me from the sword of Pharaoh”).
Exodus 18:5 Jethro, Moses' father-in-law, came with his sons and his wife to Moses in the wilderness where he was encamped at the mountain of God.
Exodus 18:6 And when he sent word to Moses, “I,  your father-in-law Jethro, am coming to you with your wife and her two sons with her,”
Exodus 18:7 Moses kissed him. And they asked each other of their welfare and went into the tent.
Exodus 18:8 Then Moses told his father-in-law all that the LORD had done to Pharaoh and to the Egyptians for Israel's sake, all the hardship that had come upon them in the way, and how the LORD had delivered them.
Exodus 18:9 And Jethro rejoiced for all the good that the LORD had done to Israel, in that he had delivered them out of the hand of the Egyptians.
Exodus 18:10 Jethro said, “Blessed be the LORD, who has delivered you out of the hand of the Egyptians and out of the hand of Pharaoh and has delivered the people from under the hand of the Egyptians.
Exodus 18:11 Now I know that
Exodus 18:12 And Jethro, Moses' father-in-law, brought a burnt offering and sacrifices to God; and Aaron came with all the elders of Israel to eat bread with Moses' father-in-law before God.
Exodus 18:13 The next day Moses sat to judge the people, and the people stood around Moses from morning till evening.
Exodus 18:14 When Moses' father-in-law saw all that he was doing for the people, he said, “What is this that you are doing for the people? Why do you sit alone, and all the people stand around you from morning till evening?”
Exodus 18:15 And Moses said to his father-in-law, “Because the people come to me to inquire of God;
Exodus 18:16  make them know the statutes of God and his laws.”
Exodus 18:17 Moses' father-in-law said to him, “What you are doing is not good.
Exodus 18:18 You and the people with you will certainly wear yourselves out, for the thing is too heavy for you. You are not able to do it alone.
Exodus 18:19 Now obey my voice; I will give you advice, and God be with you! You shall bring their cases to God,
Exodus 18:20 and you shall warn them about the statutes and the laws, and make them know what they must do.
Exodus 18:21 Moreover, look for able men from all the people, men who fear God, who are trustworthy and hate a bribe, and place such men over the people as chiefs of thousands, of hundreds, of fifties, and of tens.
Exodus 18:22 And bear the burden with you.
Exodus 18:23 If you do this, God will direct you, you will be able to endure, and all this people also will go to their place in peace.”
Exodus 18:24 So Moses listened to the voice of his father-in-law and did all that he had said.
Exodus 18:25  Moses chose able men out of all Israel and made them heads over the people, chiefs of thousands, of hundreds, of fifties, and of tens.
Exodus 18:26 And they judged the people at all times. Any hard case they brought to Moses, but any small matter they decided themselves.
Exodus 18:27 Then Moses let his father-in-law depart, and he went away to his own country.
Exodus 19:1 On the third new moon after the people of Israel had gone out of the land of Egypt, on that day they came into the wilderness of Sinai.
Exodus 19:2 They set out from the mountain,
Exodus 19:3 while The LORD called to him out of the mountain, saying, “Thus you shall say to the house of Jacob, and tell the people of Israel:
Exodus 19:4  I bore you on eagles' wings and brought you to myself.
Exodus 19:5 Now therefore, if you will indeed obey my voice and keep my covenant, you shall be all the earth is mine;
Exodus 19:6 and you shall be to me a a holy nation.’ These are the words that you shall speak to the people of Israel.”
Exodus 19:7 So Moses came and called the elders of the people and set before them all these words that the LORD had commanded him.
Exodus 19:8  All the people answered together and said, “All that the LORD has spoken we will do.” And Moses reported the words of the people to the LORD.
Exodus 19:9 And the LORD said to Moses, “Behold, I am coming to you believe you forever.” When Moses told the words of the people to the LORD,
Exodus 19:10 the LORD said to Moses, “Go to the people and wash their garments
Exodus 19:11 and be ready for the third day. For on the third day the LORD will come down on Mount Sinai in the sight of all the people.
Exodus 19:12 And you shall set limits for the people all around, saying, ‘Take care not to go up into the mountain or touch the edge of it. Whoever touches the mountain shall be put to death.
Exodus 19:13 No hand shall touch him, but he shall be stoned or shot; the trumpet sounds a long blast, they shall come up to the mountain.”
Exodus 19:14 So Moses and they washed their garments.
Exodus 19:15 And he said to the people, “Be ready for the do not go near a woman.”
Exodus 19:16 On the morning of the trembled.
Exodus 19:17 Then Moses brought the people out of the camp to meet God, and they took their stand at the foot of the mountain.
Exodus 19:18 Now the whole mountain trembled greatly.
Exodus 19:19 And as the God answered him in thunder.
Exodus 19:20 The LORD came down on Mount Sinai, to the top of the mountain. And the LORD called Moses to the top of the mountain, and Moses went up.
Exodus 19:21 And the LORD said to Moses, “Go down and warn the people, lest they break through to the LORD to look and many of them perish.
Exodus 19:22 Also let the priests who come near to the LORD break out against them.”
Exodus 19:23 And Moses said to the LORD, “The people cannot come up to Mount Sinai, for you yourself warned us, saying, ‘Set limits around the mountain and consecrate it.’”
Exodus 19:24 And the LORD said to him, “Go down, and come up bringing Aaron with you. But do not let the priests and the people break through to come up to the LORD, lest he break out against them.”
Exodus 19:25 So Moses went down to the people and told them.
Exodus 20:1  God spoke all these words, saying,
Exodus 20:2  “I am the LORD your God, who brought you out of the land of Egypt, out of the house of slavery.
Exodus 20:3   me.
Exodus 20:4  “You shall not make for yourself a carved image, or any likeness of anything that is in heaven above, or that is in the earth beneath, or that is in the water under the earth.
Exodus 20:5  visiting the iniquity of the fathers on the children to the third and the fourth generation of those who hate me,
Exodus 20:6 but showing steadfast love to thousands  of those who love me and keep my commandments.
Exodus 20:7  “You shall not take the name of the LORD your God in vain, for the LORD will not hold him guiltless who takes his name in vain.
Exodus 20:8  “Remember the Sabbath day, to keep it holy.
Exodus 20:9  Six days you shall labor, and do all your work,
Exodus 20:10 but the sojourner who is within your gates.
Exodus 20:11 For in six days the LORD made heaven and earth, the sea, and all that is in them, and rested on the seventh day. Therefore the LORD blessed the Sabbath day and made it holy.
Exodus 20:12  that your days may be long in the land that the LORD your God is giving you.
Exodus 20:13
Exodus 20:14  “You shall not commit adultery.
Exodus 20:15  “You shall not steal.
Exodus 20:16  “You shall not bear false witness against your neighbor.
Exodus 20:17  you shall not covet your neighbor's wife, or his male servant, or his female servant, or his ox, or his donkey, or anything that is your neighbor's.”
Exodus 20:18 Now when all the people saw  and trembled, and they stood far off
Exodus 20:19 and said to Moses, “You speak to us, and we will listen; but do not let God speak to us, lest we die.”
Exodus 20:20  test you, that the fear of him may be before you, that you may not sin.”
Exodus 20:21 The people stood far off, while Moses drew near to the thick darkness where God was.
Exodus 20:22 And the LORD said to Moses, “Thus you shall say to the people of Israel: ‘You have seen for yourselves that I have talked with you from heaven.
Exodus 20:23  You shall not make gods of silver to be with me, nor shall you make for yourselves gods of gold.
Exodus 20:24 An altar of earth you shall make for me and sacrifice on it your burnt offerings and your peace offerings, your sheep and your oxen. bless you.
Exodus 20:25  you shall not build it of hewn stones, for if you wield your tool on it you profane it.
Exodus 20:26 And you shall not go up by steps to my altar, that your nakedness be not exposed on it.’
Exodus 21:1 “Now these are the rules that you shall set before them.
Exodus 21:2   he shall serve six years, and in the seventh he shall go out free, for nothing.
Exodus 21:3 If he comes in single, he shall go out single; if he comes in married, then his wife shall go out with him.
Exodus 21:4 If his master gives him a wife and she bears him sons or daughters, the wife and her children shall be her master's, and he shall go out alone.
Exodus 21:5 But if the slave plainly says, ‘I love my master, my wife, and my children; I will not go out free,’
Exodus 21:6 then his master shall bring him to God, and he shall bring him to the door or the doorpost. And his master shall bore his ear through with an awl, and he shall be his slave forever.
Exodus 21:7 “When a man sells his daughter as a slave, she shall not go out as the male slaves do.
Exodus 21:8 If she does not please her master, who has designated her  for himself, then he shall let her be redeemed. He shall have no right to sell her to a foreign people, since he has broken faith with her.
Exodus 21:9 If he designates her for his son, he shall deal with her as with a daughter.
Exodus 21:10 If he takes another wife to himself, he shall not diminish her food, her clothing, or her marital rights.
Exodus 21:11 And if he does not do these three things for her, she shall go out for nothing, without payment of money.
Exodus 21:12  “Whoever strikes a man so that he dies shall be put to death.
Exodus 21:13  I will appoint for you a place to which he may flee.
Exodus 21:14 But if a man willfully attacks another to kill him by cunning, you shall take him from my altar, that he may die.
Exodus 21:15 “Whoever strikes his father or his mother shall be put to death.
Exodus 21:16  in possession of him, shall be put to death.
Exodus 21:17   his father or his mother shall be put to death.
Exodus 21:18 “When men quarrel and one strikes the other with a stone or with his fist and the man does not die but takes to his bed,
Exodus 21:19 then if the man rises again and walks outdoors with his staff, he who struck him shall be clear; only he shall pay for the loss of his time, and shall have him thoroughly healed.
Exodus 21:20 “When a man strikes his slave, male or female, with a rod and the slave dies under his hand, he shall be avenged.
Exodus 21:21 But if the slave survives a day or two, he is not to be avenged, for the slave is his money.
Exodus 21:22 “When men strive together and hit a pregnant woman, so that her children come out, but there is no harm, the one who hit her shall surely be fined, as the woman's husband shall impose on him, and judges determine.
Exodus 21:23 But if there is harm, life for life,
Exodus 21:24  eye for eye, tooth for tooth, hand for hand, foot for foot,
Exodus 21:25 burn for burn, wound for wound, stripe for stripe.
Exodus 21:26 “When a man strikes the eye of his slave, male or female, and destroys it, he shall let the slave go free because of his eye.
Exodus 21:27 If he knocks out the tooth of his slave, male or female, he shall let the slave go free because of his tooth.
Exodus 21:28 “When an ox gores a man or a woman to death, the ox shall be stoned, and its flesh shall not be eaten, but the owner of the ox shall not be liable.
Exodus 21:29 But if the ox has been accustomed to gore in the past, and its owner has been warned but has not kept it in, and it kills a man or a woman, the ox shall be stoned, and its owner also shall be put to death.
Exodus 21:30 If he shall give for the redemption of his life whatever is imposed on him.
Exodus 21:31 If it gores a man's son or daughter, he shall be dealt with according to this same rule.
Exodus 21:32 If the ox gores a slave, male or female, the owner shall give to their master the ox shall be stoned.
Exodus 21:33 “When a man opens a pit, or when a man digs a pit and does not cover it, and an ox or a donkey falls into it,
Exodus 21:34 the owner of the pit shall make restoration. He shall give money to its owner, and the dead beast shall be his.
Exodus 21:35 “When one man's ox butts another's, so that it dies, then they shall sell the live ox and share its price, and the dead beast also they shall share.
Exodus 21:36 Or if it is known that the ox has been accustomed to gore in the past, and its owner has not kept it in, he shall repay ox for ox, and the dead beast shall be his.
Exodus 22:1  four sheep for a sheep.
Exodus 22:2  breaking in and is struck so that he dies, there shall be no bloodguilt for him,
Exodus 22:3 but if the sun has risen on him, there shall be bloodguilt for him. He he shall be sold for his theft.
Exodus 22:4 If the stolen beast he shall pay double.
Exodus 22:5 “If a man causes a field or vineyard to be grazed over, or lets his beast loose and it feeds in another man's field, he shall make restitution from the best in his own field and in his own vineyard.
Exodus 22:6 “If fire breaks out and catches in thorns so that the stacked grain or the standing grain or the field is consumed, he who started the fire shall make full restitution.
Exodus 22:7 “If a man gives to his neighbor money or goods to keep safe, and it is stolen from the man's house, then, if the thief is found, he shall pay double.
Exodus 22:8 If the thief is not found, the owner of the house shall come near to God to show whether or not he has put his hand to his neighbor's property.
Exodus 22:9 For every breach of trust, whether it is for an ox, for a donkey, for a sheep, for a cloak, or for any kind of lost thing, of which one says, ‘This is it,’ the case of both parties shall come before God. The one whom God condemns shall pay double to his neighbor.
Exodus 22:10 “If a man gives to his neighbor a donkey or an ox or a sheep or any beast to keep safe, and it dies or is injured or is driven away, without anyone seeing it,
Exodus 22:11  an oath by the LORD shall be between them both to see whether or not he has put his hand to his neighbor's property. The owner shall accept the oath, and he shall not make restitution.
Exodus 22:12 But if it is stolen from him, he shall make restitution to its owner.
Exodus 22:13 If it is torn by beasts, let him bring it as evidence. He shall not make restitution for what has been torn.
Exodus 22:14 “If a man borrows anything of his neighbor, and it is injured or dies, the owner not being with it, he shall make full restitution.
Exodus 22:15 If the owner was with it, he shall not make restitution; if it was hired, it came for its hiring fee.
Exodus 22:16   for her and make her his wife.
Exodus 22:17 If her father utterly refuses to give her to him, bride-price for virgins.
Exodus 22:18  “You shall not permit a sorceress to live.
Exodus 22:19  “Whoever lies with an animal shall be put to death.
Exodus 22:20
Exodus 22:21  “You shall not wrong a sojourner or oppress him, for you were sojourners in the land of Egypt.
Exodus 22:22  You shall not mistreat any widow or fatherless child.
Exodus 22:23 If you do mistreat them, and they hear their cry,
Exodus 22:24 and my wrath will burn, and I will kill you with the sword, and your wives shall become widows and your children fatherless.
Exodus 22:25  “If you lend money to any of my people with you who is poor, you shall not be like a moneylender to him, and you shall not exact interest from him.
Exodus 22:26  If ever you take your neighbor's cloak in pledge, you shall return it to him before the sun goes down,
Exodus 22:27 for that is his only covering, and it is his cloak for his body; in what else shall he sleep? And if he compassionate.
Exodus 22:28  curse a ruler of your people.
Exodus 22:29 “You shall not delay to offer from the fullness of your harvest and from the outflow of your presses. The firstborn of your sons you shall give to me.
Exodus 22:30  seven days it shall be with its mother; on the eighth day you shall give it to me.
Exodus 22:31  you shall throw it to the dogs.
Exodus 23:1  malicious witness.
Exodus 23:2 You shall not fall in with the many to do evil, nor shall you bear witness in a lawsuit, siding with the many, so as to pervert justice,
Exodus 23:3  nor shall you be partial to a poor man in his lawsuit.
Exodus 23:4  “If you meet your enemy's ox or his donkey going astray, you shall bring it back to him.
Exodus 23:5 If you see the donkey of one who hates you lying down under its burden, you shall refrain from leaving him with it; you shall rescue it with him.
Exodus 23:6  “You shall not pervert the justice due to your poor in his lawsuit.
Exodus 23:7  I will not acquit the wicked.
Exodus 23:8  And you shall take no bribe, for a bribe blinds the clear-sighted and subverts the cause of those who are in the right.
Exodus 23:9  “You shall not oppress a sojourner. You know the heart of a sojourner, for you were sojourners in the land of Egypt.
Exodus 23:10  “For six years you shall sow your land and gather in its yield,
Exodus 23:11 but the seventh year you shall let it rest and lie fallow, that the poor of your people may eat; and what they leave the beasts of the field may eat. You shall do likewise with your vineyard, and with your olive orchard.
Exodus 23:12  “Six days you shall do your work, but on the seventh day you shall rest; that your ox and your donkey may have rest, and the son of your servant woman, and the alien, may be refreshed.
Exodus 23:13  “Pay attention to all that I have said to you, and make no mention of the names of other gods, nor let it be heard on your lips.
Exodus 23:14  “Three times in the year you shall keep a feast to me.
Exodus 23:15  None shall appear before me empty-handed.
Exodus 23:16 You shall keep Feast of Ingathering at the end of the year, when you gather in from the field the fruit of your labor.
Exodus 23:17  Three times in the year shall all your males appear before the Lord GOD.
Exodus 23:18  “You shall not offer the blood of my sacrifice with anything leavened, or let the fat of my feast remain until the morning.
Exodus 23:19 “The best of the“You shall not boil a young goat in its mother's milk.
Exodus 23:20  “Behold, I send an angel before you to guard you on the way and to bring you to the place that I have prepared.
Exodus 23:21 Pay careful attention to him and obey his voice; for he will not pardon your transgression, for my name is in him.
Exodus 23:22 “But if you carefully obey his voice and do all that I say, then I will be an enemy to your enemies and an adversary to your adversaries.
Exodus 23:23  to the Amorites and the Hittites and the Perizzites and the Canaanites, the Hivites and the Jebusites, and I blot them out,
Exodus 23:24 you shall pillars in pieces.
Exodus 23:25 You I will take sickness away from among you.
Exodus 23:26  number of your days.
Exodus 23:27 I will send confusion all the people against whom you shall come, and I will make all your enemies turn their backs to you.
Exodus 23:28 And  before you, which shall drive out the Hivites, the Canaanites, and the Hittites from before you.
Exodus 23:29  I will not drive them out from before you in one year, lest the land become desolate and the wild beasts multiply against you.
Exodus 23:30 Little by little I will drive them out from before you, until you have increased and possess the land.
Exodus 23:31  I will give the inhabitants of the land into your hand, and you shall drive them out before you.
Exodus 23:32  You shall make no covenant with them and their gods.
Exodus 23:33 They shall not dwell in your land, lest they make you sin against me; for if you serve their gods, it will surely be a snare to you.”
Exodus 24:1 Then he said to Moses, “Come up to the LORD, you and Aaron, seventy of the elders of Israel, and worship from afar.
Exodus 24:2 Moses alone shall come near to the LORD, but the others shall not come near, and the people shall not come up with him.”
Exodus 24:3 Moses came and told the people all the words of the LORD and “All the words that the LORD has spoken we will do.”
Exodus 24:4 And pillars, according to the twelve tribes of Israel.
Exodus 24:5 And he sent young men of the people of Israel, who offered burnt offerings and sacrificed peace offerings of oxen to the LORD.
Exodus 24:6 And Moses took half of the blood and put it in basins, and half of the blood he threw against the altar.
Exodus 24:7 Then he took the Book of the Covenant and read it in the hearing of the people. And they said, “All that the LORD has spoken we will do, and we will be obedient.”
Exodus 24:8  And Moses took the blood and threw it on the people and said, “Behold the blood of the covenant that the LORD has made with you in accordance with all these words.”
Exodus 24:9 Then Moses and Aaron, Nadab, and Abihu, and went up,
Exodus 24:10 and they sapphire stone, like the very heaven for clearness.
Exodus 24:11 And he did not lay his hand on the chief men of the people of Israel; they beheld God, and ate and drank.
Exodus 24:12 The LORD said to Moses, tablets of stone, with the law and the commandment, which I have written for their instruction.”
Exodus 24:13 So Moses rose with his assistant into the mountain of God.
Exodus 24:14 And he said to the elders, “Wait here for us until we return to you. And behold, Aaron and Hur are with you. Whoever has a dispute, let him go to them.”
Exodus 24:15 Then Moses went up on the mountain, and the cloud covered the mountain.
Exodus 24:16  The glory of the LORD dwelt on Mount Sinai, and the cloud covered it six days. And on the seventh day he called to Moses out of the midst of the cloud.
Exodus 24:17 Now the appearance of the glory of the LORD was like a devouring fire on the top of the mountain in the sight of the people of Israel.
Exodus 24:18 Moses entered the cloud and went up on the mountain. And Moses was on the mountain forty days and forty nights.
Exodus 25:1 The LORD said to Moses,
Exodus 25:2  every man whose heart moves him you shall receive the contribution for me.
Exodus 25:3 And this is the contribution that you shall receive from them: gold, silver, and bronze,
Exodus 25:4  blue and purple and scarlet yarns and fine twined linen, goats' hair,
Exodus 25:5 tanned  acacia wood,
Exodus 25:6  spices for the anointing oil and for the fragrant incense,
Exodus 25:7 onyx stones, and stones for setting, for the ephod and for the breastpiece.
Exodus 25:8 And let them make me a I may dwell in their midst.
Exodus 25:9  tabernacle, and of all its furniture, so you shall make it.
Exodus 25:10   and a half shall be its length, a cubit and a half its breadth, and a cubit and a half its height.
Exodus 25:11 You shall overlay it with pure gold, inside and outside shall you overlay it, and you shall make on it a molding of gold around it.
Exodus 25:12 You shall cast four rings of gold for it and put them on its four feet, two rings on the one side of it, and two rings on the other side of it.
Exodus 25:13 You shall make poles of acacia wood and overlay them with gold.
Exodus 25:14 And you shall put the poles into the rings on the sides of the ark to carry the ark by them.
Exodus 25:15 The poles shall remain in the rings of the ark; they shall not be taken from it.
Exodus 25:16  testimony that I shall give you.
Exodus 25:17   of pure gold. Two cubits and a half shall be its length, and a cubit and a half its breadth.
Exodus 25:18 And you shall make two cherubim of gold; of hammered work shall you make them, on the two ends of the mercy seat.
Exodus 25:19 Make one cherub on the one end, and one cherub on the other end. Of one piece with the mercy seat shall you make the cherubim on its two ends.
Exodus 25:20  The cherubim shall spread out their wings above, overshadowing the mercy seat with their wings, their faces one to another; toward the mercy seat shall the faces of the cherubim be.
Exodus 25:21 And you shall put the mercy seat on the top of the ark, and in the ark you shall put the testimony that I shall give you.
Exodus 25:22  between the two cherubim that are on the ark of the testimony, I will speak with you about all that I will give you in commandment for the people of Israel.
Exodus 25:23  “You shall make a table of acacia wood. Two cubits shall be its length, a cubit its breadth, and a cubit and a half its height.
Exodus 25:24 You shall overlay it with pure gold and make a molding of gold around it.
Exodus 25:25 And you shall make a rim around it a handbreadth  wide, and a molding of gold around the rim.
Exodus 25:26 And you shall make for it four rings of gold, and fasten the rings to the four corners at its four legs.
Exodus 25:27 Close to the frame the rings shall lie, as holders for the poles to carry the table.
Exodus 25:28 You shall make the poles of acacia wood, and overlay them with gold, and the table shall be carried with these.
Exodus 25:29 And you shall make its plates and dishes for incense, and its flagons and bowls with which to pour drink offerings; you shall make them of pure gold.
Exodus 25:30 And you shall set the bread of the Presence on the table before me regularly.
Exodus 25:31  “You shall make a lampstand of pure gold. The lampstand shall be made of hammered work: its base, its stem, its cups, its calyxes, and its flowers shall be of one piece with it.
Exodus 25:32 And there shall be six branches going out of its sides, three branches of the lampstand out of one side of it and three branches of the lampstand out of the other side of it;
Exodus 25:33 three cups made like almond blossoms, each with calyx and flower, on one branch, and three cups made like almond blossoms, each with calyx and flower, on the other branch — so for the six branches going out of the lampstand.
Exodus 25:34 And on the lampstand itself there shall be four cups made like almond blossoms, with their calyxes and flowers,
Exodus 25:35 and a calyx of one piece with it under each pair of the six branches going out from the lampstand.
Exodus 25:36 Their calyxes and their branches shall be of one piece with it, the whole of it a single piece of hammered work of pure gold.
Exodus 25:37 You shall make seven lamps for it. And the lamps to give light on the space in front of it.
Exodus 25:38 Its tongs and their trays shall be of pure gold.
Exodus 25:39 It shall be made, with all these utensils, out of a talent  of pure gold.
Exodus 25:40 And see that you make them after the pattern for them, which is being shown you on the mountain.
Exodus 26:1 “Moreover, skillfully worked into them.
Exodus 26:2 The length of each curtain shall be twenty-eight cubits,  and the breadth of each curtain four cubits; all the curtains shall be the same size.
Exodus 26:3 Five curtains shall be coupled to one another, and the other five curtains shall be coupled to one another.
Exodus 26:4 And you shall make loops of blue on the edge of the outermost curtain in the first set. Likewise you shall make loops on the edge of the outermost curtain in the second set.
Exodus 26:5 Fifty loops you shall make on the one curtain, and fifty loops you shall make on the edge of the curtain that is in the second set; the loops shall be opposite one another.
Exodus 26:6 And you shall make fifty clasps of gold, and couple the curtains one to the other with the clasps, so that the tabernacle may be a single whole.
Exodus 26:7 “You shall also make curtains of goats' hair for a tent over the tabernacle; eleven curtains shall you make.
Exodus 26:8 The length of each curtain shall be thirty cubits, and the breadth of each curtain four cubits. The eleven curtains shall be the same size.
Exodus 26:9 You shall couple five curtains by themselves, and six curtains by themselves, and the sixth curtain you shall double over at the front of the tent.
Exodus 26:10 You shall make fifty loops on the edge of the curtain that is outermost in one set, and fifty loops on the edge of the curtain that is outermost in the second set.
Exodus 26:11 “You shall make fifty clasps of bronze, and put the clasps into the loops, and couple the tent together that it may be a single whole.
Exodus 26:12 And the part that remains of the curtains of the tent, the half curtain that remains, shall hang over the back of the tabernacle.
Exodus 26:13 And the extra that remains in the length of the curtains, the cubit on the one side, and the cubit on the other side, shall hang over the sides of the tabernacle, on this side and that side, to cover it.
Exodus 26:14   and a covering of goatskins on top.
Exodus 26:15 “You shall make upright frames for the tabernacle of acacia wood.
Exodus 26:16 Ten cubits shall be the length of a frame, and a cubit and a half the breadth of each frame.
Exodus 26:17 There shall be two tenons in each frame, for fitting together. So shall you do for all the frames of the tabernacle.
Exodus 26:18 You shall make the frames for the tabernacle: twenty frames for the south side;
Exodus 26:19 and forty bases of silver you shall make under the twenty frames, two bases under one frame for its two tenons, and two bases under the next frame for its two tenons;
Exodus 26:20 and for the second side of the tabernacle, on the north side twenty frames,
Exodus 26:21 and their forty bases of silver, two bases under one frame, and two bases under the next frame.
Exodus 26:22 And for the rear of the tabernacle westward you shall make six frames.
Exodus 26:23 And you shall make two frames for corners of the tabernacle in the rear;
Exodus 26:24 they shall be separate beneath, but joined at the top, at the first ring. Thus shall it be with both of them; they shall form the two corners.
Exodus 26:25 And there shall be eight frames, with their bases of silver, sixteen bases; two bases under one frame, and two bases under another frame.
Exodus 26:26 “You shall make bars of acacia wood, five for the frames of the one side of the tabernacle,
Exodus 26:27 and five bars for the frames of the other side of the tabernacle, and five bars for the frames of the side of the tabernacle at the rear westward.
Exodus 26:28 The middle bar, halfway up the frames, shall run from end to end.
Exodus 26:29 You shall overlay the frames with gold and shall make their rings of gold for holders for the bars, and you shall overlay the bars with gold.
Exodus 26:30 Then you shall erect the tabernacle according to the plan for it that you were shown on the mountain.
Exodus 26:31  skillfully worked into it.
Exodus 26:32 And you shall hang it on four pillars of acacia overlaid with gold, with hooks of gold, on four bases of silver.
Exodus 26:33 And you shall hang the ark of the testimony in there within the veil. And the veil shall separate for you the Holy Place from the Most Holy.
Exodus 26:34  You shall put the mercy seat on the ark of the testimony in the Most Holy Place.
Exodus 26:35 And lampstand on the south side of the tabernacle opposite the table, and you shall put the table on the north side.
Exodus 26:36 “You shall make a fine twined linen, embroidered with needlework.
Exodus 26:37 And you shall make for the screen five pillars of acacia, and overlay them with gold. Their hooks shall be of gold, and you shall cast five bases of bronze for them.
Exodus 27:1 “You shall make the  long and five cubits broad. The altar shall be square, and its height shall be three cubits.
Exodus 27:2 And you shall make you shall overlay it with bronze.
Exodus 27:3 You shall make pots for it to receive its ashes, and shovels and basins and forks and fire pans. You shall make all its utensils of bronze.
Exodus 27:4 You shall also make for it a grating, a network of bronze, and on the net you shall make four bronze rings at its four corners.
Exodus 27:5 And you shall set it under the ledge of the altar so that the net extends halfway down the altar.
Exodus 27:6 And you shall make poles for the altar, poles of acacia wood, and overlay them with bronze.
Exodus 27:7 And the poles shall be put through the rings, so that the poles are on the two sides of the altar when it is carried.
Exodus 27:8 You shall make it hollow, with boards. As it has been shown you on the mountain, so shall it be made.
Exodus 27:9  “You shall make the court of the tabernacle. On the south side the court shall have hangings of fine twined linen a hundred cubits long for one side.
Exodus 27:10 Its twenty pillars and their twenty bases shall be of bronze, but the hooks of the pillars and their fillets shall be of silver.
Exodus 27:11 And likewise for its length on the north side there shall be hangings a hundred cubits long, its pillars twenty and their bases twenty, of bronze, but the hooks of the pillars and their fillets shall be of silver.
Exodus 27:12 And for the breadth of the court on the west side there shall be hangings for fifty cubits, with ten pillars and ten bases.
Exodus 27:13 The breadth of the court on the front to the east shall be fifty cubits.
Exodus 27:14 The hangings for the one side of the gate shall be fifteen cubits, with their three pillars and three bases.
Exodus 27:15 On the other side the hangings shall be fifteen cubits, with their three pillars and three bases.
Exodus 27:16 For the gate of the court there shall be a screen twenty cubits long, of blue and purple and scarlet yarns and fine twined linen, embroidered with needlework. It shall have four pillars and with them four bases.
Exodus 27:17 All the pillars around the court shall be filleted with silver. Their hooks shall be of silver, and their bases of bronze.
Exodus 27:18 The length of the court shall be a hundred cubits, the breadth fifty, and the height five cubits, with hangings of fine twined linen and bases of bronze.
Exodus 27:19 All the utensils of the tabernacle for every use, and all its pegs and all the pegs of the court, shall be of bronze.
Exodus 27:20  “You shall command the people of Israel that they bring to you pure beaten olive oil for the light, that a lamp may regularly be set up to burn.
Exodus 27:21  outside the veil that is before the testimony, Aaron and his sons shall tend it from evening to morning before the LORD. It shall be a statute forever to be observed throughout their generations by the people of Israel.
Exodus 28:1 “Then bring near to you Nadab and Abihu, Eleazar and Ithamar.
Exodus 28:2  And you shall make holy garments for Aaron your brother, for glory and for beauty.
Exodus 28:3 You shall speak to all the skillful, whom I have filled with a spirit of skill, that they make Aaron's garments to consecrate him for my priesthood.
Exodus 28:4 These are the garments that they shall make: a a sash. They shall make holy garments for Aaron your brother and his sons to serve me as priests.
Exodus 28:5 They shall receive gold, blue and purple and scarlet yarns, and fine twined linen.
Exodus 28:6  “And they shall make the ephod of gold, of blue and purple and scarlet yarns, and of fine twined linen, skillfully worked.
Exodus 28:7 It shall have two shoulder pieces attached to its two edges, so that it may be joined together.
Exodus 28:8 And the skillfully woven band on it shall be made like it and be of one piece with it, of gold, blue and purple and scarlet yarns, and fine twined linen.
Exodus 28:9 You shall take two onyx stones, and engrave on them the names of the sons of Israel,
Exodus 28:10 six of their names on the one stone, and the names of the remaining six on the other stone, in the order of their birth.
Exodus 28:11 As a jeweler engraves signets, so shall you engrave the two stones with the names of the sons of Israel. You shall enclose them in settings of gold filigree.
Exodus 28:12 And you shall set the two stones on the shoulder pieces of the ephod, as stones of remembrance for the sons of Israel. And for remembrance.
Exodus 28:13 You shall make settings of gold filigree,
Exodus 28:14 and two chains of pure gold, twisted like cords; and you shall attach the corded chains to the settings.
Exodus 28:15  “You shall make a breastpiece of judgment, in skilled work. In the style of the ephod you shall make it — of gold, blue and purple and scarlet yarns, and fine twined linen shall you make it.
Exodus 28:16 It shall be square and doubled, a span  its length and a span its breadth.
Exodus 28:17   topaz, and carbuncle shall be the first row;
Exodus 28:18 and the second row an emerald, a sapphire, and a diamond;
Exodus 28:19 and the third row a jacinth, an agate, and an amethyst;
Exodus 28:20 and the fourth row a beryl, an onyx, and a jasper. They shall be set in gold filigree.
Exodus 28:21 There shall be twelve stones with their names according to the names of the sons of Israel. They shall be like signets, each engraved with its name, for the twelve tribes.
Exodus 28:22 You shall make for the breastpiece twisted chains like cords, of pure gold.
Exodus 28:23 And you shall make for the breastpiece two rings of gold, and put the two rings on the two edges of the breastpiece.
Exodus 28:24 And you shall put the two cords of gold in the two rings at the edges of the breastpiece.
Exodus 28:25 The two ends of the two cords you shall attach to the two settings of filigree, and so attach it in front to the shoulder pieces of the ephod.
Exodus 28:26 You shall make two rings of gold, and put them at the two ends of the breastpiece, on its inside edge next to the ephod.
Exodus 28:27 And you shall make two rings of gold, and attach them in front to the lower part of the two shoulder pieces of the ephod, at its seam above the skillfully woven band of the ephod.
Exodus 28:28 And they shall bind the breastpiece by its rings to the rings of the ephod with a lace of blue, so that it may lie on the skillfully woven band of the ephod, so that the breastpiece shall not come loose from the ephod.
Exodus 28:29  remembrance before the LORD.
Exodus 28:30 And in the breastpiece of judgment you shall put the Urim and the Thummim, and they shall be on Aaron's heart, when he goes in before the LORD. Thus Aaron shall bear the judgment of the people of Israel on his heart before the LORD regularly.
Exodus 28:31  “You shall make the robe of the ephod all of blue.
Exodus 28:32 It shall have an opening for the head in the middle of it, with a woven binding around the opening, like the opening in a garment,  so that it may not tear.
Exodus 28:33 On its hem you shall make pomegranates of blue and purple and scarlet yarns, around its hem, with bells of gold between them,
Exodus 28:34 a golden bell and a pomegranate, a golden bell and a pomegranate, around the hem of the robe.
Exodus 28:35 And it shall be on Aaron when he ministers, and its sound shall be heard when he goes into the Holy Place before the LORD, and when he comes out, so that he does not die.
Exodus 28:36 “You shall make ‘Holy to the LORD.’
Exodus 28:37 And you shall fasten it on the turban by a cord of blue. It shall be on the front of the turban.
Exodus 28:38 It shall be on Aaron's forehead, and Aaron shall bear any guilt from the holy things that the people of Israel consecrate as their holy gifts. It shall regularly be on his forehead, that they may be accepted before the LORD.
Exodus 28:39 “You shall weave the coat in checker work of fine linen, and you shall make a turban of fine linen, and you shall make a sash embroidered with needlework.
Exodus 28:40  for glory and beauty.
Exodus 28:41 And you shall put them on Aaron your brother, and on his sons with him, and shall consecrate them, that they may serve me as priests.
Exodus 28:42 You shall make for them linen undergarments to cover their naked flesh. They shall reach from the hips to the thighs;
Exodus 28:43 and they shall be on Aaron and on his sons when they go into the tent of meeting or when they come near the altar to minister in the Holy Place, lest they This shall be a statute forever for him and for his offspring after him.
Exodus 29:1 “Now this is what you shall do to them to consecrate them, that they may serve me as priests. Take one bull of the herd and two rams without blemish,
Exodus 29:2  and unleavened bread, unleavened cakes mixed with oil, and unleavened wafers smeared with oil. You shall make them of fine wheat flour.
Exodus 29:3 You shall put them in one basket and bring them in the basket, and bring the bull and the two rams.
Exodus 29:4 You shall bring Aaron and his sons to the entrance of the tent of meeting and wash them with water.
Exodus 29:5 Then skillfully woven band of the ephod.
Exodus 29:6  And you shall set the turban on his head and put the holy crown on the turban.
Exodus 29:7 You shall take the anointing oil and pour it on his head and anoint him.
Exodus 29:8 Then you shall bring his sons and put coats on them,
Exodus 29:9 and you shall gird Aaron and his sons with ordain Aaron and his sons.
Exodus 29:10 “Then you shall bring the bull before the tent of meeting. Aaron and his sons shall lay their hands on the head of the bull.
Exodus 29:11 Then you shall kill the bull before the LORD at the entrance of the tent of meeting,
Exodus 29:12 and  the blood you shall pour out at the base of the altar.
Exodus 29:13 And you shall take all the fat that covers the entrails, and the long lobe of the liver, and the two kidneys with the fat that is on them, and burn them on the altar.
Exodus 29:14 But the flesh of the bull and its skin and its dung you shall burn with fire it is a sin offering.
Exodus 29:15 “Then Aaron and his sons shall lay their hands on the head of the ram,
Exodus 29:16 and you shall kill the ram and shall take its blood and throw it against the sides of the altar.
Exodus 29:17 Then you shall cut the ram into pieces, and wash its entrails and its legs, and put them with its pieces and its head,
Exodus 29:18 and burn the whole ram on the altar. It is a burnt offering to the LORD. It is a  to the LORD.
Exodus 29:19  and Aaron and his sons shall lay their hands on the head of the ram,
Exodus 29:20 and you shall kill the ram and take part of its blood and put it on the tip of the right ear of Aaron and on the tips of the right ears of his sons, and on the thumbs of their right hands and on the great toes of their right feet, and throw the rest of the blood against the sides of the altar.
Exodus 29:21 Then you shall take part of the blood that is on the altar, and of the anointing oil, and sprinkle it on Aaron and his garments, and on his sons and his sons' garments with him. He and his garments shall be holy, and his sons and his sons' garments with him.
Exodus 29:22 “You shall also take the fat from the ram and the fat tail and the ordination),
Exodus 29:23 and one loaf of bread and one cake of bread made with oil, and one wafer out of the basket of unleavened bread that is before the LORD.
Exodus 29:24 You shall put all these on the palms of Aaron and on the palms of his sons, and wave them for a wave offering before the LORD.
Exodus 29:25 Then pleasing aroma before the LORD. It is a food offering to the LORD.
Exodus 29:26 “You shall take the wave it for a wave offering before the LORD, and it shall be your portion.
Exodus 29:27 And you shall consecrate the ordination, from what was Aaron's and his sons'.
Exodus 29:28 It shall be for Aaron and his sons as a contribution from the people of Israel from their peace offerings, their contribution to the LORD.
Exodus 29:29 “The holy garments of Aaron be anointed in them and ordained in them.
Exodus 29:30 The son who succeeds him as priest, who comes into the tent of meeting to minister in the Holy Place, shall wear them seven days.
Exodus 29:31 “You shall take the ram of ordination and boil its flesh in a holy place.
Exodus 29:32 And Aaron and his sons shall eat the flesh of the ram and the bread that is in the basket in the entrance of the tent of meeting.
Exodus 29:33  outsider shall not eat of them, because they are holy.
Exodus 29:34 And if any of the flesh for the ordination or of the bread remain until the morning, then you shall burn the remainder with fire. It shall not be eaten, because it is holy.
Exodus 29:35 “Thus you shall do to Aaron and to his sons, according to all that I have commanded you. Through seven days shall you ordain them,
Exodus 29:36 and every day you shall offer a anoint it to consecrate it.
Exodus 29:37 Seven days you shall make atonement for the altar and consecrate it, and the Whatever touches the altar shall become holy.
Exodus 29:38 “Now this is what you shall offer on the altar: day by day regularly.
Exodus 29:39 One lamb you shall offer at twilight.
Exodus 29:40 And with the first lamb a tenth measure  of beaten oil, and a fourth of a hin of wine for a drink offering.
Exodus 29:41 The other lamb you shall offer pleasing aroma, a food offering to the LORD.
Exodus 29:42 It shall be a where I will meet with you, to speak to you there.
Exodus 29:43 There I will meet with the people of Israel, and it shall be sanctified by my glory.
Exodus 29:44 I will consecrate the tent of meeting and the altar. Aaron also and his sons I will consecrate to serve me as priests.
Exodus 29:45  I will dwell among the people of Israel and will be their God.
Exodus 29:46 And they shall know that I am the LORD their God, who brought them out of the land of Egypt that I might dwell among them. I am the LORD their God.
Exodus 30:1  an altar on which to burn incense; you shall make it of acacia wood.
Exodus 30:2 A cubit Its horns shall be of one piece with it.
Exodus 30:3 You shall overlay it with pure gold, its top and around its sides and its horns. And you shall make a molding of gold around it.
Exodus 30:4 And you shall make two golden rings for it. Under its molding on two opposite sides of it you shall make them, and they shall be holders for poles with which to carry it.
Exodus 30:5 You shall make the poles of acacia wood and overlay them with gold.
Exodus 30:6 And you shall put it in front of the veil that is above the ark of the testimony, in front of the mercy seat that is above the testimony, where I will meet with you.
Exodus 30:7 And Aaron shall dresses the lamps he shall burn it,
Exodus 30:8 and when Aaron sets up the lamps at twilight, he shall burn it, a regular incense offering before the LORD throughout your generations.
Exodus 30:9 You shall not offer unauthorized incense on it, or a burnt offering, or a grain offering, and you shall not pour a drink offering on it.
Exodus 30:10  sin offering of atonement he shall make atonement for it once in the year throughout your generations. It is most holy to the LORD.”
Exodus 30:11 The LORD said to Moses,
Exodus 30:12  a ransom for his life to the LORD when you number them, that there be no plague among them when you number them.
Exodus 30:13 Each one who is numbered in the census shall give this: half a shekel half a shekel as an offering to the LORD.
Exodus 30:14 Everyone who is numbered in the census, from twenty years old and upward, shall give the LORD's offering.
Exodus 30:15 The rich shall not give more, and the poor shall not give less, than the half shekel, when you give the LORD's offering to make atonement for your lives.
Exodus 30:16 You shall take the atonement money from the people of Israel and shall remembrance before the LORD, so as to make atonement for your lives.”
Exodus 30:17 The LORD said to Moses,
Exodus 30:18 “You shall also make a You shall put it between the tent of meeting and the altar, and you shall put water in it,
Exodus 30:19 with which Aaron and his sons shall wash their hands and their feet.
Exodus 30:20 When they go into the tent of meeting, or when they come near the altar to minister, to burn a food offering  to the LORD, they shall wash with water, so that they may not die.
Exodus 30:21 They shall wash their hands and their feet, so that they may not die. It shall be a statute forever to them, even to him and to his offspring throughout their generations.”
Exodus 30:22 The LORD said to Moses,
Exodus 30:23 “Take the aromatic cane,
Exodus 30:24 and 500 of cassia, according to the shekel of the sanctuary, and a  of olive oil.
Exodus 30:25 And you shall make of these a sacred anointing oil blended as by the holy anointing oil.
Exodus 30:26  With it you shall anoint the tent of meeting and the ark of the testimony,
Exodus 30:27 and the table and all its utensils, and the lampstand and its utensils, and the altar of incense,
Exodus 30:28 and the altar of burnt offering with all its utensils and the basin and its stand.
Exodus 30:29 You shall consecrate them, that they may be most holy. Whatever touches them will become holy.
Exodus 30:30  You shall anoint Aaron and his sons, and consecrate them, that they may serve me as priests.
Exodus 30:31 And you shall say to the people of Israel, ‘This shall be my holy anointing oil throughout your generations.
Exodus 30:32 It shall not be poured on the body of an ordinary person, and you shall make no other like it in composition. It is holy, and it shall be holy to you.
Exodus 30:33  Whoever compounds any like it or whoever puts any of it on an outsider shall be cut off from his people.’”
Exodus 30:34 The LORD said to Moses, “Take sweet spices, stacte, and onycha, and galbanum, sweet spices with pure frankincense (of each shall there be an equal part),
Exodus 30:35 and make an seasoned with salt, pure and holy.
Exodus 30:36 You shall beat some of it very small, and put part of it before the testimony in the tent of meeting It shall be most holy for you.
Exodus 30:37 And the incense that you shall make according to its composition, you shall not make for yourselves. It shall be for you holy to the LORD.
Exodus 30:38  Whoever makes any like it to use as perfume shall be cut off from his people.”
Exodus 31:1 The LORD said to Moses,
Exodus 31:2 “See, I have called by name Hur, of the tribe of Judah,
Exodus 31:3 and I have filled him with the Spirit of God, with ability and intelligence, with knowledge and all craftsmanship,
Exodus 31:4 to devise artistic designs, to work in gold, silver, and bronze,
Exodus 31:5 in cutting stones for setting, and in carving wood, to work in every craft.
Exodus 31:6 And behold, I have appointed with him ability, that they may make all that I have commanded you:
Exodus 31:7  the mercy seat that is on it, and all the furnishings of the tent,
Exodus 31:8  the altar of incense,
Exodus 31:9 and the basin and its stand,
Exodus 31:10 and  the holy garments for Aaron the priest and the garments of his sons, for their service as priests,
Exodus 31:11 and incense for the Holy Place. According to all that I have commanded you, they shall do.”
Exodus 31:12 And the LORD said to Moses,
Exodus 31:13 “You are to speak to the people of Israel and say, ‘Above all you shall keep my Sabbaths, for this is a sign between me and you throughout your generations, that you may know that I, the LORD, sanctify you.
Exodus 31:14 You shall keep the Sabbath, because it is holy for you. Everyone who profanes it shall be put to death. Whoever does any work on it, that soul shall be cut off from among his people.
Exodus 31:15  Whoever does any work on the Sabbath day shall be put to death.
Exodus 31:16 Therefore the people of Israel shall keep the Sabbath, observing the Sabbath throughout their generations, as a covenant forever.
Exodus 31:17  on the seventh day he rested and was refreshed.’”
Exodus 31:18 And he gave to Moses, when he had finished speaking with him on Mount Sinai, the the finger of God.
Exodus 32:1 When the people saw that Moses go before us. As for this Moses, the man who brought us up out of the land of Egypt, we do not know what has become of him.”
Exodus 32:2 So Aaron said to them, “Take off the rings of gold that are in the ears of your wives, your sons, and your daughters, and bring them to me.”
Exodus 32:3 So all the people took off the rings of gold that were in their ears and brought them to Aaron.
Exodus 32:4  “These are your gods, O Israel, who brought you up out of the land of Egypt!”
Exodus 32:5 When Aaron saw this, he built an altar before it. And Aaron made a proclamation and said, “Tomorrow shall be a feast to the LORD.”
Exodus 32:6 And they rose up early the next day and offered burnt offerings and brought peace offerings. And to play.
Exodus 32:7 And the LORD said to Moses, corrupted themselves.
Exodus 32:8 They have turned aside quickly out of the way that I commanded them. They have made for themselves a golden calf and have worshiped it and sacrificed to it and said, ‘These are your gods, O Israel, who brought you up out of the land of Egypt!’”
Exodus 32:9 And the LORD said to Moses, “I have seen this people, and behold, it is a stiff-necked people.
Exodus 32:10 Now therefore I may make a great nation of you.”
Exodus 32:11 But Moses implored the LORD his God and said, “O LORD, why does your wrath burn hot against your people, whom you have brought out of the land of Egypt with great power and with a mighty hand?
Exodus 32:12  relent from this disaster against your people.
Exodus 32:13 Remember Abraham, Isaac, and Israel, your servants, to whom you ‘I will multiply your offspring as the stars of heaven, and all this land that I have promised I will give to your offspring, and they shall inherit it forever.’”
Exodus 32:14 And the LORD relented from the disaster that he had spoken of bringing on his people.
Exodus 32:15 Then two tablets of the testimony in his hand, tablets that were written on both sides; on the front and on the back they were written.
Exodus 32:16  The tablets were the work of God, and the writing was the writing of God, engraved on the tablets.
Exodus 32:17 When Joshua heard the noise of the people as they shouted, he said to Moses, “There is a noise of war in the camp.”
Exodus 32:18 But he said, “It is not the sound of shouting for victory, or the sound of the cry of defeat, but the sound of singing that I hear.”
Exodus 32:19 And as soon as he came near the camp and saw the calf and the dancing, Moses' anger burned hot, and he threw the tablets out of his hands and broke them at the foot of the mountain.
Exodus 32:20 He took the calf that they had made and burned it with fire and ground it to powder and scattered it on the water and made the people of Israel drink it.
Exodus 32:21 And Moses said to Aaron, “What did this people do to you that you have brought such a great sin upon them?”
Exodus 32:22 And Aaron said, “Let not the anger of my lord burn hot. You know the people, that they are set on evil.
Exodus 32:23 For they said to me, ‘Make us gods who shall go before us. As for this Moses, the man who brought us up out of the land of Egypt, we do not know what has become of him.’
Exodus 32:24 So I said to them, ‘Let any who have gold take it off.’ So they gave it to me, and I threw it into the fire, and out came this calf.”
Exodus 32:25 And when Moses saw that the people had broken loose (for Aaron had let them break loose, to the derision of their enemies),
Exodus 32:26 then Moses stood in the gate of the camp and said, “Who is on the LORD's side? Come to me.” And all the sons of Levi gathered around him.
Exodus 32:27 And he said to them, “Thus says the LORD God of Israel, ‘Put your sword on your side each of you, and go to and fro from gate to gate throughout the camp, and each of you kill his brother and his companion and his neighbor.’”
Exodus 32:28 And the sons of Levi did according to the word of Moses. And that day about three thousand men of the people fell.
Exodus 32:29 And Moses said, “Today you have been ordained for the service of the LORD, each one at the cost of his son and of his brother, so that he might bestow a blessing upon you this day.”
Exodus 32:30 The next day Moses said to the people, perhaps I can make atonement for your sin.”
Exodus 32:31 So Moses returned to the LORD and said, “Alas, made for themselves gods of gold.
Exodus 32:32 But now, if your book that you have written.”
Exodus 32:33 But the LORD said to Moses, “Whoever has sinned against me, I will blot out of my book.
Exodus 32:34  behold, my angel shall go before you. Nevertheless, in the day when I visit, I will visit their sin upon them.”
Exodus 32:35 Then the LORD sent a plague on the people, because they made the calf, the one that Aaron made.
Exodus 33:1 The LORD said to Moses, “Depart; go up from here, you your offspring I will give it.’
Exodus 33:2 I will send an and I will drive out the Canaanites, the Amorites, the Hittites, the Perizzites, the Hivites, and the Jebusites.
Exodus 33:3  stiff-necked people.”
Exodus 33:4 When the people heard this disastrous word, they no one put on his ornaments.
Exodus 33:5 For the LORD had said to Moses, “Say to the people of Israel, ‘You are a take off your ornaments, that I may know what to do with you.’”
Exodus 33:6 Therefore the people of Israel stripped themselves of their ornaments, from Mount Horeb onward.
Exodus 33:7 Now Moses used to take the tent and pitch it outside the camp, far off from the camp, and sought the LORD would go out to the tent of meeting, which was outside the camp.
Exodus 33:8 Whenever Moses went out to the tent, all the people would rise up, and each would stand at his tent door, and watch Moses until he had gone into the tent.
Exodus 33:9 When Moses entered the tent, the  would speak with Moses.
Exodus 33:10 And when all the people saw the pillar of cloud standing at the entrance of the tent, all the people would rise up and worship, each at his tent door.
Exodus 33:11 Thus assistant Joshua the son of Nun, a young man, would not depart from the tent.
Exodus 33:12 Moses said to the LORD, “See, ‘I know you by name, and you have also found favor in my sight.’
Exodus 33:13 Now therefore, if I have found favor in your sight, please your people.”
Exodus 33:14 And he said, I will give you rest.”
Exodus 33:15 And he said to him, “If your presence will not go with me, do not bring us up from here.
Exodus 33:16 For how shall it be known that I have found favor in your sight, I and your people? so that we are distinct, I and your people, from every other people on the face of the earth?”
Exodus 33:17 And the LORD said to Moses, “This very thing that you have spoken I will do, for you have found favor in my sight, and I know you by name.”
Exodus 33:18 Moses said, “Please show me your glory.”
Exodus 33:19 And he said, I will be gracious to whom I will be gracious, and will show mercy on whom I will show mercy.
Exodus 33:20 But,” he said, “you cannot see my face, for man shall not see me and live.”
Exodus 33:21 And the LORD said, “Behold, there is a place by me where you shall stand on the rock,
Exodus 33:22 and while my glory passes by I will put you in a cover you with my hand until I have passed by.
Exodus 33:23 Then I will take away my hand, and you shall see my back, but my face shall not be seen.”
Exodus 34:1 The LORD said to Moses, which you broke.
Exodus 34:2 Be ready by the morning, and come up in the morning to Mount Sinai, and present yourself there to me on the top of the mountain.
Exodus 34:3 No one shall come up with you, and let no one be seen throughout all the mountain. Let no flocks or herds graze opposite that mountain.”
Exodus 34:4 So Moses cut two tablets of stone like the first. And he rose early in the morning and went up on Mount Sinai, as the LORD had commanded him, and took in his hand two tablets of stone.
Exodus 34:5 The LORD proclaimed the name of the LORD.
Exodus 34:6 The LORD passed before him and proclaimed, love and faithfulness,
Exodus 34:7  visiting the iniquity of the fathers on the children and the children's children, to the third and the fourth generation.”
Exodus 34:8 And Moses quickly bowed his head toward the earth and worshiped.
Exodus 34:9 And he said, “If now I have found favor in your sight, O Lord, please your inheritance.”
Exodus 34:10 And he said, “Behold, awesome thing that I will do with you.
Exodus 34:11 “Observe what I command you this day. Behold, I will drive out before you the Amorites, the Canaanites, the Hittites, the Perizzites, the Hivites, and the Jebusites.
Exodus 34:12  snare in your midst.
Exodus 34:13 You shall Asherim
Exodus 34:14 (for you shall worship no other god, for the LORD, whose name is Jealous, is a jealous God),
Exodus 34:15  you are invited, you eat of his sacrifice,
Exodus 34:16 and you take of whore after their gods and make your sons whore after their gods.
Exodus 34:17  “You shall not make for yourself any gods of cast metal.
Exodus 34:18  the month Abib, for in the month Abib you came out from Egypt.
Exodus 34:19   livestock, the firstborn of cow and sheep.
Exodus 34:20 The none shall appear before me empty-handed.
Exodus 34:21  “Six days you shall work, but on the seventh day you shall rest. In plowing time and in harvest you shall rest.
Exodus 34:22  You shall observe the Feast of Weeks, the firstfruits of wheat harvest, and the Feast of Ingathering at the year's end.
Exodus 34:23  Three times in the year shall all your males appear before the LORD God, the God of Israel.
Exodus 34:24 For I will no one shall covet your land, when you go up to appear before the LORD your God three times in the year.
Exodus 34:25  or let the sacrifice of the Feast of the Passover remain until the morning.
Exodus 34:26  You shall not boil a young goat in its mother's milk.”
Exodus 34:27 And the LORD said to Moses, “Write these words, for in accordance with these words I have made a covenant with you and with Israel.”
Exodus 34:28
Exodus 34:29 When Moses came down from Mount Sinai, with
Exodus 34:30 Aaron and all the people of Israel saw Moses, and behold, the skin of his face shone, and they were afraid to come near him.
Exodus 34:31 But Moses called to them, and Aaron and all the leaders of the congregation returned to him, and Moses talked with them.
Exodus 34:32 Afterward all the people of Israel came near, and he commanded them all that the LORD had spoken with him in Mount Sinai.
Exodus 34:33 And when Moses had finished speaking with them, he put a veil over his face.
Exodus 34:34 Whenever Moses went in before the LORD to speak with him, he would remove the veil, until he came out. And when he came out and told the people of Israel what he was commanded,
Exodus 34:35 the people of Israel would see the face of Moses, that the skin of Moses' face was shining. And Moses would put the veil over his face again, until he went in to speak with him.
Exodus 35:1 Moses assembled all the congregation of the people of Israel and said to them, “These are the things that the LORD has commanded you to do.
Exodus 35:2  Six days work shall be done, but on the seventh day you shall have a Sabbath of solemn rest, holy to the LORD. Whoever does any work on it shall be put to death.
Exodus 35:3  You shall kindle no fire in all your dwelling places on the Sabbath day.”
Exodus 35:4 Moses said to all the congregation of the people of Israel, “This is the thing that the LORD has commanded.
Exodus 35:5  Whoever is of a generous heart, let him bring the LORD's contribution: gold, silver, and bronze;
Exodus 35:6 blue and purple and scarlet yarns and fine twined linen; goats' hair,
Exodus 35:7 tanned rams' skins, and goatskins;  acacia wood,
Exodus 35:8 oil for the light, spices for the anointing oil and for the fragrant incense,
Exodus 35:9 and onyx stones and stones for setting, for the ephod and for the breastpiece.
Exodus 35:10 “Let every skillful craftsman among you come and make all that the LORD has commanded:
Exodus 35:11  the tabernacle, its tent and its covering, its hooks and its frames, its bars, its pillars, and its bases;
Exodus 35:12  veil of the screen;
Exodus 35:13  bread of the Presence;
Exodus 35:14  oil for the light;
Exodus 35:15  the screen for the door, at the door of the tabernacle;
Exodus 35:16  basin and its stand;
Exodus 35:17  the hangings of the court, its pillars and its bases, and the screen for the gate of the court;
Exodus 35:18  cords;
Exodus 35:19 the  in the Holy Place, the holy garments for Aaron the priest, and the garments of his sons, for their service as priests.”
Exodus 35:20 Then all the congregation of the people of Israel departed from the presence of Moses.
Exodus 35:21 And they came, and brought the LORD's contribution to be used for the tent of meeting, and for all its service, and for the holy garments.
Exodus 35:22 So they came, both men and women. All who were of a willing heart brought brooches and earrings and signet rings and armlets, all sorts of gold objects, every man dedicating an offering of gold to the LORD.
Exodus 35:23 And blue or purple or scarlet yarns or fine linen or goats' hair or tanned rams' skins or goatskins brought them.
Exodus 35:24  Everyone who could make a contribution of silver or bronze brought it as the LORD's contribution. And every one who possessed acacia wood of any use in the work brought it.
Exodus 35:25 And every skillful woman spun with her hands, and they all brought what they had spun in blue and purple and scarlet yarns and fine twined linen.
Exodus 35:26 All the women whose hearts stirred them to use their skill spun the goats' hair.
Exodus 35:27 And the leaders brought onyx stones and stones to be set, for the ephod and for the breastpiece,
Exodus 35:28 and spices and oil for the light, and for the anointing oil, and for the fragrant incense.
Exodus 35:29  All the men and women, the people of Israel, whose heart moved them to bring anything for the work that the LORD had commanded by Moses to be done brought it as a freewill offering to the LORD.
Exodus 35:30  Then Moses said to the people of Israel, “See, the LORD has called by name Bezalel the son of Uri, son of Hur, of the tribe of Judah;
Exodus 35:31 and he has filled him with the Spirit of God, with skill, with intelligence, with knowledge, and with all craftsmanship,
Exodus 35:32 to devise artistic designs, to work in gold and silver and bronze,
Exodus 35:33 in cutting stones for setting, and in carving wood, for work in every skilled craft.
Exodus 35:34 And he has inspired him to teach, both him and Oholiab the son of Ahisamach of the tribe of Dan.
Exodus 35:35 He has filled them with skill to do every sort of work done by an engraver or by a designer or by an embroiderer in blue and purple and scarlet yarns and fine twined linen, or by a weaver — by any sort of workman or skilled designer.
Exodus 36:1 “Bezalel and Oholiab and every craftsman in whom the LORD has put skill and intelligence to know how to do any work in the construction of the sanctuary shall work in accordance with all that the LORD has commanded.”
Exodus 36:2 And Moses called Bezalel and Oholiab and every craftsman in whose mind the LORD had put skill, everyone whose heart stirred him up to come to do the work.
Exodus 36:3 And they received from Moses all the freewill offerings every morning,
Exodus 36:4 so that all the craftsmen who were doing every sort of task on the sanctuary came, each from the task that he was doing,
Exodus 36:5 and said to Moses, “The people bring much more than enough for doing the work that the LORD has commanded us to do.”
Exodus 36:6 So Moses gave command, and word was proclaimed throughout the camp, “Let no man or woman do anything more for the contribution for the sanctuary.” So the people were restrained from bringing,
Exodus 36:7 for the material they had was sufficient to do all the work, and more.
Exodus 36:8  And all the craftsmen among the workmen made the tabernacle with ten curtains. They were made of fine twined linen and blue and purple and scarlet yarns, with cherubim skillfully worked.
Exodus 36:9 The length of each curtain was twenty-eight cubits,  and the breadth of each curtain four cubits. All the curtains were the same size.
Exodus 36:10 He  coupled five curtains to one another, and the other five curtains he coupled to one another.
Exodus 36:11 He made loops of blue on the edge of the outermost curtain of the first set. Likewise he made them on the edge of the outermost curtain of the second set.
Exodus 36:12 He made fifty loops on the one curtain, and he made fifty loops on the edge of the curtain that was in the second set. The loops were opposite one another.
Exodus 36:13 And he made fifty clasps of gold, and coupled the curtains one to the other with clasps. So the tabernacle was a single whole.
Exodus 36:14 He also made curtains of goats' hair for a tent over the tabernacle. He made eleven curtains.
Exodus 36:15 The length of each curtain was thirty cubits, and the breadth of each curtain four cubits. The eleven curtains were the same size.
Exodus 36:16 He coupled five curtains by themselves, and six curtains by themselves.
Exodus 36:17 And he made fifty loops on the edge of the outermost curtain of the one set, and fifty loops on the edge of the other connecting curtain.
Exodus 36:18 And he made fifty clasps of bronze to couple the tent together that it might be a single whole.
Exodus 36:19 And he made for the tent a covering of tanned rams' skins and goatskins.
Exodus 36:20  acacia wood.
Exodus 36:21 Ten cubits was the length of a frame, and a cubit and a half the breadth of each frame.
Exodus 36:22 Each frame had two tenons for fitting together. He did this for all the frames of the tabernacle.
Exodus 36:23 The frames for the tabernacle he made thus: twenty frames for the south side.
Exodus 36:24 And he made forty bases of silver under the twenty frames, two bases under one frame for its two tenons, and two bases under the next frame for its two tenons.
Exodus 36:25 For the second side of the tabernacle, on the north side, he made twenty frames
Exodus 36:26 and their forty bases of silver, two bases under one frame and two bases under the next frame.
Exodus 36:27 For the rear of the tabernacle westward he made six frames.
Exodus 36:28 He made two frames for corners of the tabernacle in the rear.
Exodus 36:29 And they were separate beneath but joined at the top, at the first ring. He made two of them this way for the two corners.
Exodus 36:30 There were eight frames with their bases of silver: sixteen bases, under every frame two bases.
Exodus 36:31 He made bars of acacia wood, five for the frames of the one side of the tabernacle,
Exodus 36:32 and five bars for the frames of the other side of the tabernacle, and five bars for the frames of the tabernacle at the rear westward.
Exodus 36:33 And he made the middle bar to run from end to end halfway up the frames.
Exodus 36:34 And he overlaid the frames with gold, and made their rings of gold for holders for the bars, and overlaid the bars with gold.
Exodus 36:35  He made the veil of blue and purple and scarlet yarns and fine twined linen; with cherubim skillfully worked into it he made it.
Exodus 36:36 And for it he made four pillars of acacia and overlaid them with gold. Their hooks were of gold, and he cast for them four bases of silver.
Exodus 36:37 He also made a screen for the entrance of the tent, of blue and purple and scarlet yarns and fine twined linen, embroidered with needlework,
Exodus 36:38 and its five pillars with their hooks. He overlaid their capitals, and their fillets were of gold, but their five bases were of bronze.
Exodus 37:1   and a half was its length, a cubit and a half its breadth, and a cubit and a half its height.
Exodus 37:2 And he overlaid it with pure gold inside and outside, and made a molding of gold around it.
Exodus 37:3 And he cast for it four rings of gold for its four feet, two rings on its one side and two rings on its other side.
Exodus 37:4 And he made poles of acacia wood and overlaid them with gold
Exodus 37:5 and put the poles into the rings on the sides of the ark to carry the ark.
Exodus 37:6 And he made a mercy seat of pure gold. Two cubits and a half was its length, and a cubit and a half its breadth.
Exodus 37:7 And he made two cherubim of gold. He made them of hammered work on the two ends of the mercy seat,
Exodus 37:8 one cherub on the one end, and one cherub on the other end. Of one piece with the mercy seat he made the cherubim on its two ends.
Exodus 37:9 The cherubim spread out their wings above, overshadowing the mercy seat with their wings, with their faces one to another; toward the mercy seat were the faces of the cherubim.
Exodus 37:10  He also made the table of acacia wood. Two cubits was its length, a cubit its breadth, and a cubit and a half its height.
Exodus 37:11 And he overlaid it with pure gold, and made a molding of gold around it.
Exodus 37:12 And he made a rim around it a handbreadth  wide, and made a molding of gold around the rim.
Exodus 37:13 He cast for it four rings of gold and fastened the rings to the four corners at its four legs.
Exodus 37:14 Close to the frame were the rings, as holders for the poles to carry the table.
Exodus 37:15 He made the poles of acacia wood to carry the table, and overlaid them with gold.
Exodus 37:16 And he made the vessels of pure gold that were to be on the table, its plates and dishes for incense, and its bowls and flagons with which to pour drink offerings.
Exodus 37:17  He also made the lampstand of pure gold. He made the lampstand of hammered work. Its base, its stem, its cups, its calyxes, and its flowers were of one piece with it.
Exodus 37:18 And there were six branches going out of its sides, three branches of the lampstand out of one side of it and three branches of the lampstand out of the other side of it;
Exodus 37:19 three cups made like almond blossoms, each with calyx and flower, on one branch, and three cups made like almond blossoms, each with calyx and flower, on the other branch — so for the six branches going out of the lampstand.
Exodus 37:20 And on the lampstand itself were four cups made like almond blossoms, with their calyxes and flowers,
Exodus 37:21 and a calyx of one piece with it under each pair of the six branches going out of it.
Exodus 37:22 Their calyxes and their branches were of one piece with it. The whole of it was a single piece of hammered work of pure gold.
Exodus 37:23 And he made its seven lamps and its tongs and its trays of pure gold.
Exodus 37:24 He made it and all its utensils out of a talent  of pure gold.
Exodus 37:25  He made the altar of incense of acacia wood. Its length was a cubit, and its breadth was a cubit. It was square, and two cubits was its height. Its horns were of one piece with it.
Exodus 37:26 He overlaid it with pure gold, its top and around its sides and its horns. And he made a molding of gold around it,
Exodus 37:27 and made two rings of gold on it under its molding, on two opposite sides of it, as holders for the poles with which to carry it.
Exodus 37:28 And he made the poles of acacia wood and overlaid them with gold.
Exodus 37:29  pure fragrant incense, blended as by the perfumer.
Exodus 38:1   was its length, and five cubits its breadth. It was square, and three cubits was its height.
Exodus 38:2 He made horns for it on its four corners. Its horns were of one piece with it, and he overlaid it with bronze.
Exodus 38:3 And he made all the utensils of the altar, the pots, the shovels, the basins, the forks, and the fire pans. He made all its utensils of bronze.
Exodus 38:4 And he made for the altar a grating, a network of bronze, under its ledge, extending halfway down.
Exodus 38:5 He cast four rings on the four corners of the bronze grating as holders for the poles.
Exodus 38:6 He made the poles of acacia wood and overlaid them with bronze.
Exodus 38:7 And he put the poles through the rings on the sides of the altar to carry it with them. He made it hollow, with boards.
Exodus 38:8  ministering women who ministered in the entrance of the tent of meeting.
Exodus 38:9  And he made the court. For the south side the hangings of the court were of fine twined linen, a hundred cubits;
Exodus 38:10 their twenty pillars and their twenty bases were of bronze, but the hooks of the pillars and their fillets were of silver.
Exodus 38:11 And for the north side there were hangings of a hundred cubits; their twenty pillars and their twenty bases were of bronze, but the hooks of the pillars and their fillets were of silver.
Exodus 38:12 And for the west side were hangings of fifty cubits, their ten pillars, and their ten bases; the hooks of the pillars and their fillets were of silver.
Exodus 38:13 And for the front to the east, fifty cubits.
Exodus 38:14 The hangings for one side of the gate were fifteen cubits, with their three pillars and three bases.
Exodus 38:15 And so for the other side. On both sides of the gate of the court were hangings of fifteen cubits, with their three pillars and their three bases.
Exodus 38:16 All the hangings around the court were of fine twined linen.
Exodus 38:17 And the bases for the pillars were of bronze, but the hooks of the pillars and their fillets were of silver. The overlaying of their capitals was also of silver, and all the pillars of the court were filleted with silver.
Exodus 38:18 And the screen for the gate of the court was embroidered with needlework in blue and purple and scarlet yarns and fine twined linen. It was twenty cubits long and five cubits high in its breadth, corresponding to the hangings of the court.
Exodus 38:19 And their pillars were four in number. Their four bases were of bronze, their hooks of silver, and the overlaying of their capitals and their fillets of silver.
Exodus 38:20 And all the pegs for the tabernacle and for the court all around were of bronze.
Exodus 38:21 These are the records of the tabernacle, under the direction of Ithamar the son of Aaron the priest.
Exodus 38:22  Bezalel the son of Uri, son of Hur, of the tribe of Judah, made all that the LORD commanded Moses;
Exodus 38:23 and with him was Oholiab the son of Ahisamach, of the tribe of Dan, an engraver and designer and embroiderer in blue and purple and scarlet yarns and fine twined linen.
Exodus 38:24 All the gold that was used for the work, in all the construction of the sanctuary, the gold from the offering, was twenty-nine talents and 730 shekels, the shekel of the sanctuary.
Exodus 38:25 The silver from those of the congregation who were recorded was a hundred talents and 1,775 shekels, by the shekel of the sanctuary:
Exodus 38:26 a 603,550 men.
Exodus 38:27 The hundred talents of silver were for casting the bases of the sanctuary and the bases of the veil; a hundred bases for the hundred talents, a talent a base.
Exodus 38:28 And of the 1,775 shekels he made hooks for the pillars and overlaid their capitals and made fillets for them.
Exodus 38:29 The bronze that was offered was seventy talents and 2,400 shekels;
Exodus 38:30 with it he made the the bronze altar and the bronze grating for it and all the utensils of the altar,
Exodus 38:31 the pegs of the tabernacle, and all the pegs around the court.
Exodus 39:1 From the as the LORD had commanded Moses.
Exodus 39:2  He made the ephod of gold, blue and purple and scarlet yarns, and fine twined linen.
Exodus 39:3 And they hammered out gold leaf, and he cut it into threads to work into the blue and purple and the scarlet yarns, and into the fine twined linen, in skilled design.
Exodus 39:4 They made for the ephod attaching shoulder pieces, joined to it at its two edges.
Exodus 39:5 And the skillfully woven band on it was of one piece with it and made like it, of gold, blue and purple and scarlet yarns, and fine twined linen, as the LORD had commanded Moses.
Exodus 39:6 They made the onyx stones, enclosed in settings of gold filigree, and engraved like the engravings of a signet, according to the names of the sons of Israel.
Exodus 39:7 And he set them on the shoulder pieces of the ephod to be stones of remembrance for the sons of Israel, as the LORD had commanded Moses.
Exodus 39:8  He made the breastpiece, in skilled work, in the style of the ephod, of gold, blue and purple and scarlet yarns, and fine twined linen.
Exodus 39:9 It was square. They made the breastpiece doubled, a span  its length and a span its breadth when doubled.
Exodus 39:10 And they set in it four rows of stones. A row of sardius, topaz, and carbuncle was the first row;
Exodus 39:11 and the second row, an emerald, a sapphire, and a diamond;
Exodus 39:12 and the third row, a jacinth, an agate, and an amethyst;
Exodus 39:13 and the fourth row, a beryl, an onyx, and a jasper. They were enclosed in settings of gold filigree.
Exodus 39:14 There were twelve stones with their names according to the names of the sons of Israel. They were like signets, each engraved with its name, for the twelve tribes.
Exodus 39:15 And they made on the breastpiece twisted chains like cords, of pure gold.
Exodus 39:16 And they made two settings of gold filigree and two gold rings, and put the two rings on the two edges of the breastpiece.
Exodus 39:17 And they put the two cords of gold in the two rings at the edges of the breastpiece.
Exodus 39:18 They attached the two ends of the two cords to the two settings of filigree. Thus they attached it in front to the shoulder pieces of the ephod.
Exodus 39:19 Then they made two rings of gold, and put them at the two ends of the breastpiece, on its inside edge next to the ephod.
Exodus 39:20 And they made two rings of gold, and attached them in front to the lower part of the two shoulder pieces of the ephod, at its seam above the skillfully woven band of the ephod.
Exodus 39:21 And they bound the breastpiece by its rings to the rings of the ephod with a lace of blue, so that it should lie on the skillfully woven band of the ephod, and that the breastpiece should not come loose from the ephod, as the LORD had commanded Moses.
Exodus 39:22  He also made the robe of the ephod woven all of blue,
Exodus 39:23 and the opening of the robe in it was like the opening in a garment, with a binding around the opening, so that it might not tear.
Exodus 39:24 On the hem of the robe they made pomegranates of blue and purple and scarlet yarns and fine twined linen.
Exodus 39:25 They also made bells of pure gold, and put the bells between the pomegranates all around the hem of the robe, between the pomegranates —
Exodus 39:26 a bell and a pomegranate, a bell and a pomegranate around the hem of the robe for ministering, as the LORD had commanded Moses.
Exodus 39:27  linen, for Aaron and his sons,
Exodus 39:28 and the turban of fine linen, and the caps of fine linen, and the linen undergarments of fine twined linen,
Exodus 39:29 and the sash of fine twined linen and of blue and purple and scarlet yarns, embroidered with needlework, as the LORD had commanded Moses.
Exodus 39:30  They made the plate of the holy crown of pure gold, and wrote on it an inscription, like the engraving of a signet, “Holy to the LORD.”
Exodus 39:31 And they tied to it a cord of blue to fasten it on the turban above, as the LORD had commanded Moses.
Exodus 39:32 Thus all the work of the tabernacle of the tent of meeting was finished, and the people of Israel did according to all that the LORD had commanded Moses; so they did.
Exodus 39:33 Then they brought the tabernacle to Moses, the tent and all its utensils, its hooks, its frames, its bars, its pillars, and its bases;
Exodus 39:34 the covering of tanned rams' skins and goatskins, and the veil of the screen;
Exodus 39:35 the ark of the testimony with its poles and the mercy seat;
Exodus 39:36 the table with all its utensils, and the bread of the Presence;
Exodus 39:37  the lampstand of pure gold and its lamps with the lamps set and all its utensils, and the oil for the light;
Exodus 39:38  the screen for the entrance of the tent;
Exodus 39:39 the bronze altar, and its grating of bronze, its poles, and all its utensils; the basin and its stand;
Exodus 39:40  cords, and its pegs; and all the utensils for the service of the tabernacle, for the tent of meeting;
Exodus 39:41 the finely worked garments for ministering in the Holy Place, the holy garments for Aaron the priest, and the garments of his sons for their service as priests.
Exodus 39:42  According to all that the LORD had commanded Moses, so the people of Israel had done all the work.
Exodus 39:43 And Moses saw all the work, and behold, they had done it; as the LORD had commanded, so had they done it. Then Moses blessed them.
Exodus 40:1 The LORD spoke to Moses, saying,
Exodus 40:2 “On the erect the tabernacle of the tent of meeting.
Exodus 40:3 And you shall put in it the ark of the testimony, and you shall screen the ark with the veil.
Exodus 40:4 And you shall bring in the lampstand and set up its lamps.
Exodus 40:5  And you shall put the golden altar for incense before the ark of the testimony, and set up the screen for the door of the tabernacle.
Exodus 40:6  You shall set the altar of burnt offering before the door of the tabernacle of the tent of meeting,
Exodus 40:7  and place the basin between the tent of meeting and the altar, and put water in it.
Exodus 40:8 And you shall set up the court all around, and hang up the screen for the gate of the court.
Exodus 40:9 “Then you shall take the anointing oil and anoint the tabernacle and all that is in it, and consecrate it and all its furniture, so that it may become holy.
Exodus 40:10 You shall also anoint so that the altar may become most holy.
Exodus 40:11 You shall also anoint the basin and its stand, and consecrate it.
Exodus 40:12  Then you shall bring Aaron and his sons to the entrance of the tent of meeting and shall wash them with water
Exodus 40:13 and put on Aaron the holy garments. And you shall anoint him and consecrate him, that he may serve me as priest.
Exodus 40:14 You shall bring his sons also and put coats on them,
Exodus 40:15  perpetual priesthood throughout their generations.”
Exodus 40:16 This Moses did; according to all that the LORD commanded him, so he did.
Exodus 40:17 In the first month in the second year, on the first day of the month, the tabernacle was erected.
Exodus 40:18 Moses erected the tabernacle. He laid its bases, and set up its frames, and put in its poles, and raised up its pillars.
Exodus 40:19 And he spread the tent over the tabernacle and put the covering of the tent over it, as the LORD had commanded Moses.
Exodus 40:20 He took the testimony and put it into the ark, and put the poles on the ark and set the mercy seat above on the ark.
Exodus 40:21 And he brought the ark into the tabernacle and the ark of the testimony, as the LORD had commanded Moses.
Exodus 40:22  He put the table in the tent of meeting, on the north side of the tabernacle, outside the veil,
Exodus 40:23 and arranged the bread on it before the LORD, as the LORD had commanded Moses.
Exodus 40:24  He put the lampstand in the tent of meeting, opposite the table on the south side of the tabernacle,
Exodus 40:25  and set up the lamps before the LORD, as the LORD had commanded Moses.
Exodus 40:26  He put the golden altar in the tent of meeting before the veil,
Exodus 40:27 and burned fragrant incense on it, as the LORD had commanded Moses.
Exodus 40:28  He put in place the screen for the door of the tabernacle.
Exodus 40:29  grain offering, as the LORD had commanded Moses.
Exodus 40:30  He set the basin between the tent of meeting and the altar, and put water in it for washing,
Exodus 40:31 with which Moses and washed their hands and their feet.
Exodus 40:32 When they went into the tent of meeting, and when they approached the altar, they washed, as the LORD commanded Moses.
Exodus 40:33  Moses finished the work.
Exodus 40:34 Then the glory of the LORD filled the tabernacle.
Exodus 40:35 And Moses was not able to enter the tent of meeting because the cloud settled on it, and the glory of the LORD filled the tabernacle.
Exodus 40:36 Throughout all their journeys, whenever the cloud was taken up from over the tabernacle, the people of Israel would set out.
Exodus 40:37 But if the cloud was not taken up, then they did not set out till the day that it was taken up.
Exodus 40:38 For the cloud of the LORD was on the tabernacle by day, and fire was in it by night, in the sight of all the house of Israel throughout all their journeys.
Leviticus 1:1  from the tent of meeting, saying,
Leviticus 1:2 “Speak to the people of Israel and say to them, When any one of you brings an offering to the LORD, you shall bring your offering of livestock from the herd or from the flock.
Leviticus 1:3 “If his offering is a burnt offering from the herd, he shall offer a male without blemish. He shall bring it to the entrance of the tent of meeting, that he may be accepted before the LORD.
Leviticus 1:4  to make atonement for him.
Leviticus 1:5 Then he shall kill the bull before the LORD, and Aaron's sons the priests shall bring the blood and throw the blood against the sides of the altar that is at the entrance of the tent of meeting.
Leviticus 1:6 Then he shall flay the burnt offering and cut it into pieces,
Leviticus 1:7 and the sons of Aaron the priest shall put fire on the altar and arrange wood on the fire.
Leviticus 1:8 And Aaron's sons the priests shall arrange the pieces, the head, and the fat, on the wood that is on the fire on the altar;
Leviticus 1:9 but its entrails and its legs he shall wash with water. And the priest shall burn all of it on the altar, as pleasing aroma to the LORD.
Leviticus 1:10 “If his gift for a burnt offering is from the flock, from the sheep or goats, he shall bring a male without blemish,
Leviticus 1:11  and he shall kill it on the north side of the altar before the LORD, and Aaron's sons the priests shall throw its blood against the sides of the altar.
Leviticus 1:12 And he shall cut it into pieces, with its head and its fat, and the priest shall arrange them on the wood that is on the fire on the altar,
Leviticus 1:13 but the entrails and the legs he shall wash with water. And the priest shall offer all of it and burn it on the altar; it is a pleasing aroma to the LORD.
Leviticus 1:14 “If his offering to the LORD is a burnt offering of birds, then he shall bring his offering of turtledoves or pigeons.
Leviticus 1:15 And the priest shall bring it to the altar and wring off its head and burn it on the altar. Its blood shall be drained out on the side of the altar.
Leviticus 1:16 He shall remove its crop with its contents beside the altar on the east side, in the place for ashes.
Leviticus 1:17 He shall tear it open by its wings, but shall not sever it completely. And the priest shall burn it on the altar, on the wood that is on the fire. It is a burnt offering, a food offering with a pleasing aroma to the LORD.
Leviticus 2:1 “When anyone brings a He shall pour oil on it and put frankincense on it
Leviticus 2:2 and bring it to Aaron's sons the priests. And he shall take from it a handful of the fine flour and oil, with all of its frankincense, and the priest shall burn this as its offering with a pleasing aroma to the LORD.
Leviticus 2:3 But the it is a most holy part of the LORD's food offerings.
Leviticus 2:4 “When you bring a grain offering baked in the oven as an offering, it shall be unleavened loaves of fine flour mixed with oil or unleavened wafers smeared with oil.
Leviticus 2:5 And if your offering is a grain offering baked on a griddle, it shall be of fine flour unleavened, mixed with oil.
Leviticus 2:6 You shall break it in pieces and pour oil on it; it is a grain offering.
Leviticus 2:7 And if your offering is a grain offering cooked in a pan, it shall be made of fine flour with oil.
Leviticus 2:8 And you shall bring the grain offering that is made of these things to the LORD, and when it is presented to the priest, he shall bring it to the altar.
Leviticus 2:9 And the priest shall take from the grain offering its memorial portion and burn this on the altar, a food pleasing aroma to the LORD.
Leviticus 2:10 But the it is a most holy part of the LORD's food offerings.
Leviticus 2:11 “No grain offering that you bring to the LORD shall be made with leaven, for you shall burn no leaven nor any honey as a food offering to the LORD.
Leviticus 2:12  As an offering of firstfruits you may bring them to the LORD, but they shall not be offered on the altar for a pleasing aroma.
Leviticus 2:13 You with all your offerings you shall offer salt.
Leviticus 2:14 “If you offer a grain offering of firstfruits to the LORD, you shall offer for the grain offering of your firstfruits fresh ears, roasted with fire, crushed new grain.
Leviticus 2:15 And you shall put oil on it and lay frankincense on it; it is a grain offering.
Leviticus 2:16 And the priest shall burn as its memorial portion some of the crushed grain and some of the oil with all of its frankincense; it is a food offering to the LORD.
Leviticus 3:1 “If his offering is without blemish before the LORD.
Leviticus 3:2 And he shall lay his hand on the head of his offering and kill it at the entrance of the tent of meeting, and Aaron's sons the priests shall throw the blood against the sides of the altar.
Leviticus 3:3 And from the sacrifice of the peace offering, as a food offering to the LORD, he shall offer the fat covering the entrails and all the fat that is on the entrails,
Leviticus 3:4  and the two kidneys with the fat that is on them at the loins, and the long lobe of the liver that he shall remove with the kidneys.
Leviticus 3:5 Then Aaron's sons shall burn it on the altar on top of the burnt offering, which is on the wood on the fire; it is a food offering with a pleasing aroma to the LORD.
Leviticus 3:6 “If his offering for a sacrifice of peace offering to the LORD is an animal from the flock, male or female, he shall offer it without blemish.
Leviticus 3:7 If he offers a lamb for his offering, then he shall offer it before the LORD,
Leviticus 3:8 lay his hand on the head of his offering, and kill it in front of the tent of meeting; and Aaron's sons shall throw its blood against the sides of the altar.
Leviticus 3:9 Then from the sacrifice of the peace offering he shall offer as a food offering to the LORD its fat; he shall remove the whole fat tail, cut off close to the backbone, and the fat that covers the entrails and all the fat that is on the entrails
Leviticus 3:10 and the two kidneys with the fat that is on them at the loins and the long lobe of the liver that he shall remove with the kidneys.
Leviticus 3:11 And the priest shall burn it on the altar as a food offering to the LORD.
Leviticus 3:12 “If his offering is a goat, then he shall offer it before the LORD
Leviticus 3:13 and lay his hand on its head and kill it in front of the tent of meeting, and the sons of Aaron shall throw its blood against the sides of the altar.
Leviticus 3:14 Then he shall offer from it, as his offering for a food offering to the LORD, the fat covering the entrails and all the fat that is on the entrails
Leviticus 3:15 and the two kidneys with the fat that is on them at the loins and the long lobe of the liver that he shall remove with the kidneys.
Leviticus 3:16 And the priest shall burn them on the altar as a All fat is the LORD's.
Leviticus 3:17 It shall be a statute forever throughout your generations, in all your dwelling places, that you eat neither blood.”
Leviticus 4:1 And the LORD spoke to Moses, saying,
Leviticus 4:2 “Speak to the people of Israel, saying, about things not to be done, and does any one of them,
Leviticus 4:3 if it is the anointed priest who a bull from the herd without blemish to the LORD for a sin offering.
Leviticus 4:4 He shall bring the bull to the entrance of the tent of meeting before the LORD and lay his hand on the head of the bull and kill the bull before the LORD.
Leviticus 4:5 And the anointed priest shall take some of the blood of the bull and bring it into the tent of meeting,
Leviticus 4:6 and the priest shall dip his finger in the blood and sprinkle part of the blood seven times before the LORD in front of the veil of the sanctuary.
Leviticus 4:7 And the priest all the rest of the blood of the bull he shall pour out at the base of the altar of burnt offering that is at the entrance of the tent of meeting.
Leviticus 4:8 And all the fat of the bull of the sin offering he shall remove from it, the fat that covers the entrails and all the fat that is on the entrails
Leviticus 4:9  and the two kidneys with the fat that is on them at the loins and the long lobe of the liver that he shall remove with the kidneys
Leviticus 4:10 (just as these are taken from the ox of the sacrifice of the peace offerings); and the priest shall burn them on the altar of burnt offering.
Leviticus 4:11 But the skin of the bull and all its flesh, with its head, its legs, its entrails, and its dung —
Leviticus 4:12 all the rest of the bull — he shall carry burn it up on a fire of wood. On the ash heap it shall be burned up.
Leviticus 4:13
Leviticus 4:14  when the sin which they have committed becomes known, the assembly shall offer a bull from the herd for a sin offering and bring it in front of the tent of meeting.
Leviticus 4:15 And the elders of the congregation shall lay their hands on the head of the bull before the LORD, and the bull shall be killed before the LORD.
Leviticus 4:16 Then the anointed priest shall bring some of the blood of the bull into the tent of meeting,
Leviticus 4:17 and the priest shall dip his finger in the blood and sprinkle it seven times before the LORD in front of the veil.
Leviticus 4:18 And he shall put some of the blood on the horns of the altar that is in the tent of meeting before the LORD, and the rest of the blood he shall pour out at the base of the altar of burnt offering that is at the entrance of the tent of meeting.
Leviticus 4:19 And all its fat he shall take from it and burn on the altar.
Leviticus 4:20 Thus shall he do with the bull. As he did And the priest shall make atonement for them, and they shall be forgiven.
Leviticus 4:21 And he shall carry the bull outside the camp and burn it up as he burned the first bull; it is the sin offering for the assembly.
Leviticus 4:22 “When a leader sins, doing unintentionally any one of all the things that by the commandments of the LORD his God ought not to be done, and realizes his guilt,
Leviticus 4:23 or the sin which he has committed is made known to him, he shall bring as his offering a goat, a male without blemish,
Leviticus 4:24 and shall lay his hand on the head of the goat and kill it in the place where they kill the burnt offering before the LORD; it is a sin offering.
Leviticus 4:25  Then the priest shall take some of the blood of the sin offering with his finger and put it on the horns of the altar of burnt offering and pour out the rest of its blood at the base of the altar of burnt offering.
Leviticus 4:26 And all its fat he shall burn on the altar, like the priest shall make atonement for him for his sin, and he shall be forgiven.
Leviticus 4:27 “If anyone of the common people sins unintentionally in doing any one of the things that by the LORD's commandments ought not to be done, and realizes his guilt,
Leviticus 4:28  or the sin which he has committed is made known to him, he shall bring for his offering a goat, a female without blemish, for his sin which he has committed.
Leviticus 4:29  And he shall lay his hand on the head of the sin offering and kill the sin offering in the place of burnt offering.
Leviticus 4:30 And the priest shall take some of its blood with his finger and put it on the horns of the altar of burnt offering and pour out all the rest of its blood at the base of the altar.
Leviticus 4:31 And And the priest shall make atonement for him, and he shall be forgiven.
Leviticus 4:32 “If he brings a lamb as his offering for a sin offering, he shall bring a female without blemish
Leviticus 4:33  and lay his hand on the head of the sin offering and kill it for a sin offering in the place where they kill the burnt offering.
Leviticus 4:34 Then the priest shall take some of the blood of the sin offering with his finger and put it on the horns of the altar of burnt offering and pour out all the rest of its blood at the base of the altar.
Leviticus 4:35 And all its fat he shall remove And the priest shall make atonement for him for the sin which he has committed, and he shall be forgiven.
Leviticus 5:1 “If anyone sins in that he hears a public bear his iniquity;
Leviticus 5:2 or if anyone touches an unclean thing, whether a carcass of an unclean wild animal or a carcass of unclean livestock or a carcass of unclean swarming things, and it is hidden from him and he has become unclean, and he realizes his guilt;
Leviticus 5:3 or if he touches human uncleanness, of whatever sort the uncleanness may be with which one becomes unclean, and it is hidden from him, when he comes to know it, and realizes his guilt;
Leviticus 5:4 or if anyone utters with his lips a swear, and it is hidden from him, when he comes to know it, and he realizes his guilt in any of these;
Leviticus 5:5 when he realizes his guilt in any of these and confesses the sin he has committed,
Leviticus 5:6 he shall bring to the LORD as his compensation  for the sin that he has committed, a female from the flock, a lamb or a goat, for a sin offering. And the priest shall make atonement for him for his sin.
Leviticus 5:7 “But  one for a sin offering and the other for a burnt offering.
Leviticus 5:8 He shall bring them to the priest, who shall offer first the one for the sin offering. He shall but shall not sever it completely,
Leviticus 5:9 and he shall sprinkle some of the blood of the sin offering on the side of the altar, while at the base of the altar; it is a sin offering.
Leviticus 5:10 Then he shall offer the second for a burnt offering according to the rule. And the priest shall make atonement for him for the sin that he has committed, and he shall be forgiven.
Leviticus 5:11 “But if he cannot afford two turtledoves or two pigeons, then he shall bring as his offering for the sin that he has committed a shall put no oil on it and shall put no frankincense on it, for it is a sin offering.
Leviticus 5:12 And he shall bring it to burn this on the altar, on the LORD's food offerings; it is a sin offering.
Leviticus 5:13 Thus  shall be for the priest, as in the grain offering.”
Leviticus 5:14 The LORD spoke to Moses, saying,
Leviticus 5:15  shekel of the sanctuary, for a guilt offering.
Leviticus 5:16 He shall also make restitution for what he has done amiss in the holy thing and And the priest shall make atonement for him with the ram of the guilt offering, and he shall be forgiven.
Leviticus 5:17  though he did not know it, then realizes his guilt, he shall bear his iniquity.
Leviticus 5:18  the priest shall make atonement for him for the mistake that he made unintentionally, and he shall be forgiven.
Leviticus 5:19 It is a guilt offering; he has indeed incurred guilt before  the LORD.”
Leviticus 6:1  The LORD spoke to Moses, saying,
Leviticus 6:2 “If anyone sins and if he has oppressed his neighbor
Leviticus 6:3 or swearing falsely — in any of all the things that people do and sin thereby —
Leviticus 6:4 if he has sinned and has realized his guilt and will restore what he took by robbery or what he got by oppression or the deposit that was committed to him or the lost thing that he found
Leviticus 6:5 or anything about which he has sworn falsely, he shall restore it in full and shall add a fifth to it, and give it to him to whom it belongs on the day he realizes his guilt.
Leviticus 6:6 And he shall bring to the priest as his compensation to the LORD a ram without blemish out of the flock, or its equivalent, for a guilt offering.
Leviticus 6:7  And the priest shall make atonement for him before the LORD, and he shall be forgiven for any of the things that one may do and thereby become guilty.”
Leviticus 6:8  The LORD spoke to Moses, saying,
Leviticus 6:9 “Command Aaron and his sons, saying, This is the law of the burnt offering. The burnt offering shall be on the hearth on the altar all night until the morning, and the fire of the altar shall be kept burning on it.
Leviticus 6:10 And beside the altar.
Leviticus 6:11 Then outside the camp to a clean place.
Leviticus 6:12 The fire on the altar shall be kept burning on it; it shall not go out. The priest shall burn wood on it every morning, and he shall arrange the burnt offering on it and shall burn on it the fat of the peace offerings.
Leviticus 6:13 Fire shall be kept burning on the altar continually; it shall not go out.
Leviticus 6:14 “And this is the law of the grain offering. The sons of Aaron shall offer it before the LORD in front of the altar.
Leviticus 6:15 And one shall take from it a handful of the fine flour of the grain offering and its oil and all the frankincense that is on the grain offering and burn this as its memorial portion on the altar, a pleasing aroma to the LORD.
Leviticus 6:16 And in a holy place. In the court of the tent of meeting they shall eat it.
Leviticus 6:17  It is a thing most holy, like the sin offering and the guilt offering.
Leviticus 6:18 Every male among the children of Aaron may eat of it, as decreed forever throughout your generations, from the LORD's food offerings. Whatever touches them shall become holy.”
Leviticus 6:19 The LORD spoke to Moses, saying,
Leviticus 6:20   of fine flour as a regular grain offering, half of it in the morning and half in the evening.
Leviticus 6:21 It shall be made with oil  pieces like a grain offering, and offer it for a pleasing aroma to the LORD.
Leviticus 6:22 The priest from among Aaron's sons, who is anointed to succeed him, shall offer it to the LORD as decreed forever. The whole of it shall be burned.
Leviticus 6:23 Every grain offering of a priest shall be wholly burned. It shall not be eaten.”
Leviticus 6:24 The LORD spoke to Moses, saying,
Leviticus 6:25 “Speak to Aaron and his sons, saying, it is most holy.
Leviticus 6:26  In a holy place it shall be eaten, in the court of the tent of meeting.
Leviticus 6:27 Whatever touches its flesh shall be holy, and when any of its blood is splashed on a garment, you shall wash that on which it was splashed in a holy place.
Leviticus 6:28 And shall be broken. But if it is boiled in a bronze vessel, that shall be scoured and rinsed in water.
Leviticus 6:29 Every male among the priests may eat of it; it is most holy.
Leviticus 6:30  But no sin offering shall be eaten from which any blood is brought into the tent of meeting to make atonement in the Holy Place; it shall be burned up with fire.
Leviticus 7:1  It is most holy.
Leviticus 7:2  In the place where they kill the burnt offering they shall kill the guilt offering, and its blood shall be thrown against the sides of the altar.
Leviticus 7:3 And all its fat shall be offered, the fat tail, the fat that covers the entrails,
Leviticus 7:4 the two kidneys with the fat that is on them at the loins, and the long lobe of the liver that he shall remove with the kidneys.
Leviticus 7:5 The priest shall burn them on the altar as a food offering to the LORD; it is a guilt offering.
Leviticus 7:6  It is most holy.
Leviticus 7:7 The guilt offering is just like the sin offering; there is one law for them. The priest who makes atonement with it shall have it.
Leviticus 7:8 And the priest who offers any man's burnt offering shall have for himself the skin of the burnt offering that he has offered.
Leviticus 7:9 And on a pan or a griddle shall belong to the priest who offers it.
Leviticus 7:10 And every grain offering, mixed with oil or dry, shall be shared equally among all the sons of Aaron.
Leviticus 7:11 “And this is the law of the sacrifice of peace offerings that one may offer to the LORD.
Leviticus 7:12 If he offers it for a thanksgiving, then he shall offer with the thanksgiving sacrifice well mixed with oil.
Leviticus 7:13  With the sacrifice of his peace offerings for thanksgiving he shall bring his offering with loaves of leavened bread.
Leviticus 7:14 And from it he shall offer one loaf from each offering, as a It shall belong to the priest who throws the blood of the peace offerings.
Leviticus 7:15 And the flesh of the sacrifice of his peace offerings for thanksgiving shall be eaten on the day of his offering. He shall not leave any of it until the morning.
Leviticus 7:16 But if the sacrifice of his offering is a vow offering or a freewill offering, it shall be eaten on the day that he offers his sacrifice, and on the next day what remains of it shall be eaten.
Leviticus 7:17 But what remains of the flesh of the sacrifice on the third day shall be burned up with fire.
Leviticus 7:18 If any of the flesh of the sacrifice of his peace offering is eaten on the third day, he who offers it shall not be accepted, neither shall it be credited to him. It is tainted, and he who eats of it shall bear his iniquity.
Leviticus 7:19 “Flesh that touches any unclean thing shall not be eaten. It shall be burned up with fire. All who are clean may eat flesh,
Leviticus 7:20 but the person who eats of the flesh of the sacrifice of the LORD's peace offerings while an uncleanness is on him, that person shall be cut off from his people.
Leviticus 7:21 And if anyone touches an unclean thing, whether unclean detestable creature, and then eats some flesh from the sacrifice of the LORD's peace offerings, that person shall be cut off from his people.”
Leviticus 7:22 The LORD spoke to Moses, saying,
Leviticus 7:23 “Speak to the people of Israel, saying, You shall eat no fat, of ox or sheep or goat.
Leviticus 7:24 The fat of an animal that dies of itself and the fat of one that is torn by beasts may be put to any other use, but on no account shall you eat it.
Leviticus 7:25 For every person who eats of the fat of an animal of which a food offering may be made to the LORD shall be cut off from his people.
Leviticus 7:26 Moreover, you shall eat no blood whatever, whether of fowl or of animal, in any of your dwelling places.
Leviticus 7:27 Whoever eats any blood, that person shall be cut off from his people.”
Leviticus 7:28 The LORD spoke to Moses, saying,
Leviticus 7:29 “Speak to the people of Israel, saying, Whoever offers the sacrifice of his peace offerings to the LORD shall bring his offering to the LORD from the sacrifice of his peace offerings.
Leviticus 7:30  the breast, that the breast may be waved as a wave offering before the LORD.
Leviticus 7:31  the breast shall be for Aaron and his sons.
Leviticus 7:32 And the right thigh you shall give to the priest as a contribution from the sacrifice of your peace offerings.
Leviticus 7:33 Whoever among the sons of Aaron offers the blood of the peace offerings and the fat shall have the right thigh for a portion.
Leviticus 7:34 For the breast that is have given them to Aaron the priest and to his sons, as a perpetual due from the people of Israel.
Leviticus 7:35 This is the portion of Aaron and of his sons from the LORD's food offerings, from the day they were presented to serve as priests of the LORD.
Leviticus 7:36 The LORD commanded this to be given them by the people of Israel, from the day that he anointed them. It is a perpetual due throughout their generations.”
Leviticus 7:37 This is the law of the peace offering,
Leviticus 7:38 which the LORD commanded Moses on Mount Sinai, on the day that he commanded the people of Israel to bring their offerings to the LORD, in the wilderness of Sinai.
Leviticus 8:1  The LORD spoke to Moses, saying,
Leviticus 8:2 “Take Aaron and his sons with him, and the anointing oil and the bull of the sin offering and the two rams and the basket of unleavened bread.
Leviticus 8:3 And assemble all the congregation at the entrance of the tent of meeting.”
Leviticus 8:4 And Moses did as the LORD commanded him, and the congregation was assembled at the entrance of the tent of meeting.
Leviticus 8:5 And Moses said to the congregation, “This is the thing that the LORD has commanded to be done.”
Leviticus 8:6 And Moses brought Aaron and his sons and washed them with water.
Leviticus 8:7 And he put
Leviticus 8:8 And he placed the breastpiece on him, and in the breastpiece he put the Urim and the Thummim.
Leviticus 8:9 And he set on the turban, in front, he set the golden plate, the holy crown, as the LORD commanded Moses.
Leviticus 8:10  Then Moses took the anointing oil and anointed the tabernacle and all that was in it, and consecrated them.
Leviticus 8:11 And he sprinkled some of it on the altar seven times, and anointed the altar and all its utensils and the basin and its stand, to consecrate them.
Leviticus 8:12 And he poured some of the anointing oil on Aaron's head and anointed him to consecrate him.
Leviticus 8:13 And Moses brought Aaron's sons and clothed them with coats and tied sashes around their waists and bound caps on them, as the LORD commanded Moses.
Leviticus 8:14 Then he brought laid their hands on the head of the bull of the sin offering.
Leviticus 8:15 And he Moses took the blood, and with his finger put it on the horns of the altar around it and purified the altar and poured out the blood at the base of the altar and consecrated it to make atonement for it.
Leviticus 8:16  And he took all the fat that was on the entrails and the long lobe of the liver and the two kidneys with their fat, and Moses burned them on the altar.
Leviticus 8:17 But the bull and its skin and its flesh and its dung he burned up with fire outside the camp, as the LORD commanded Moses.
Leviticus 8:18  Then he presented the ram of the burnt offering, and Aaron and his sons laid their hands on the head of the ram.
Leviticus 8:19 And he killed it, and Moses threw the blood against the sides of the altar.
Leviticus 8:20 He cut the ram into pieces, and Moses burned the head and the pieces and the fat.
Leviticus 8:21 He washed the entrails and the legs with water, and Moses burned the whole ram on the altar. It was a burnt offering with a pleasing aroma, a food offering for the LORD, as the LORD commanded Moses.
Leviticus 8:22 Then he presented the other ram, the ram of ordination, and Aaron and his sons laid their hands on the head of the ram.
Leviticus 8:23 And he killed it, and Moses took some of its blood and put it on the lobe of Aaron's right ear and on the thumb of his right hand and on the big toe of his right foot.
Leviticus 8:24 Then he presented Aaron's sons, and Moses put some of the blood on the lobes of their right ears and on the thumbs of their right hands and on the big toes of their right feet. And Moses threw the blood against the sides of the altar.
Leviticus 8:25 Then he took the fat and the fat tail and all the fat that was on the entrails and the long lobe of the liver and the two kidneys with their fat and the right thigh,
Leviticus 8:26 and out of the basket of unleavened bread that was before the LORD he took one unleavened loaf and one loaf of bread with oil and one wafer and placed them on the pieces of fat and on the right thigh.
Leviticus 8:27 And he put all these in the hands of Aaron and in the hands of his sons and waved them as a wave offering before the LORD.
Leviticus 8:28 Then Moses took them from their hands and burned them on the altar with the burnt offering. This was an ordination offering with a pleasing aroma, a food offering to the LORD.
Leviticus 8:29 And Moses took the breast and waved it for a wave offering before the LORD. It was Moses' portion of the ram of ordination, as the LORD commanded Moses.
Leviticus 8:30 Then Moses took some of the anointing oil and of the blood that was on the altar and sprinkled it on Aaron and his garments, and also on his sons and his sons' garments. So he consecrated Aaron and his garments, and his sons and his sons' garments with him.
Leviticus 8:31 And Moses said to Aaron and his sons, “Boil the flesh at the entrance of the tent of meeting, and there eat it and the bread that is in the basket of ordination offerings, as I commanded, saying, ‘Aaron and his sons shall eat it.’
Leviticus 8:32 And what remains of the flesh and the bread you shall burn up with fire.
Leviticus 8:33 And you shall not go outside the entrance of the tent of meeting for seven days, until the days of your ordination are completed, for it will take seven days to ordain you.
Leviticus 8:34 As has been done today, the LORD has commanded to be done to make atonement for you.
Leviticus 8:35 At the entrance of the tent of meeting you shall remain day and night for seven days, performing what the LORD has charged, so that you do not die, for so I have been commanded.”
Leviticus 8:36 And Aaron and his sons did all the things that the LORD commanded by Moses.
Leviticus 9:1  On the eighth day Moses called Aaron and his sons and the elders of Israel,
Leviticus 9:2 and he said to Aaron, a ram for a burnt offering, both without blemish, and offer them before the LORD.
Leviticus 9:3 And say to the people of Israel, ‘Take a male goat for a sin offering, and a calf and a lamb, both a year old without blemish, for a burnt offering,
Leviticus 9:4 and an ox and a ram for peace offerings, to sacrifice before the LORD, and today the LORD will appear to you.’”
Leviticus 9:5 And they brought what Moses commanded in front of the tent of meeting, and all the congregation drew near and stood before the LORD.
Leviticus 9:6 And Moses said, “This is the thing that the LORD commanded you to do, that the glory of the LORD may appear to you.”
Leviticus 9:7 Then Moses said to Aaron, “Draw near to the altar and make atonement for yourself and for the people, and bring the offering of the people and make atonement for them, as the LORD has commanded.”
Leviticus 9:8 So Aaron drew near to the altar and killed the calf of the sin offering, which was for himself.
Leviticus 9:9  put it on the horns of the altar and poured out the blood at the base of the altar.
Leviticus 9:10  as the LORD commanded Moses.
Leviticus 9:11  The flesh and the skin he burned up with fire outside the camp.
Leviticus 9:12 Then he killed the burnt offering, and Aaron's sons handed him the blood, and he threw it against the sides of the altar.
Leviticus 9:13  And they handed the burnt offering to him, piece by piece, and the head, and he burned them on the altar.
Leviticus 9:14  And he washed the entrails and the legs and burned them with the burnt offering on the altar.
Leviticus 9:15  like the first one.
Leviticus 9:16 And he presented the burnt offering and offered it rule.
Leviticus 9:17 And he presented the besides the burnt offering of the morning.
Leviticus 9:18 Then he killed the ox and the ram, the sacrifice of peace offerings for the people. And Aaron's sons handed him the blood, and he threw it against the sides of the altar.
Leviticus 9:19 But the fat pieces of the ox and of the ram, the fat tail and that which covers the entrails and the kidneys and the long lobe of the liver —
Leviticus 9:20 they put the fat pieces on the breasts, and he burned the fat pieces on the altar,
Leviticus 9:21 but the breasts and the right thigh Aaron waved for a wave offering before the LORD, as Moses commanded.
Leviticus 9:22 Then Aaron blessed them, and he came down from offering the sin offering and the burnt offering and the peace offerings.
Leviticus 9:23 And Moses and Aaron went into the tent of meeting, and when they came out they blessed the people, and the glory of the LORD appeared to all the people.
Leviticus 9:24 And fell on their faces.
Leviticus 10:1 Now  fire before the LORD, which he had not commanded them.
Leviticus 10:2 And fire came out from before the LORD and consumed them, and they died before the LORD.
Leviticus 10:3 Then Moses said to Aaron, “This is what the LORD has said: ‘Among And Aaron held his peace.
Leviticus 10:4 And Moses called Mishael and Elzaphan, the sons of Uzziel the uncle of Aaron, and said to them, “Come near; carry your brothers away from the front of the sanctuary and out of the camp.”
Leviticus 10:5 So they came near and carried them in their coats out of the camp, as Moses had said.
Leviticus 10:6 And Moses said to Aaron and to Eleazar and Ithamar his sons, wrath come upon all the congregation; but let your brothers, the whole house of Israel, bewail the burning that the LORD has kindled.
Leviticus 10:7  for the anointing oil of the LORD is upon you.” And they did according to the word of Moses.
Leviticus 10:8 And the LORD spoke to Aaron, saying,
Leviticus 10:9  “Drink no wine or strong drink, you or your sons with you, when you go into the tent of meeting, lest you die. It shall be a statute forever throughout your generations.
Leviticus 10:10 You are to distinguish between the holy and the common, and between the unclean and the clean,
Leviticus 10:11 and you are to teach the people of Israel all the statutes that the LORD has spoken to them by Moses.”
Leviticus 10:12 Moses spoke to Aaron and to Eleazar and Ithamar, his surviving sons: “Take the it is most holy.
Leviticus 10:13 You shall eat it in a holy place, because it is your due and your sons' due, from the LORD's food offerings, for so I am commanded.
Leviticus 10:14 But the breast that is waved and the thigh that is contributed you shall eat in a clean place, you and your sons and your daughters with you, for they are given as your due and your sons' due from the sacrifices of the peace offerings of the people of Israel.
Leviticus 10:15  The thigh that is contributed and the breast that is waved they shall bring with the food offerings of the fat pieces to wave for a wave offering before the LORD, and it shall be yours and your sons' with you as a due forever, as the LORD has commanded.”
Leviticus 10:16 Now Moses diligently inquired about the goat of the sin offering, and behold, it was burned up! And he was angry with Eleazar and Ithamar, the surviving sons of Aaron, saying,
Leviticus 10:17  it is a thing most holy and has been given to you that you may bear the iniquity of the congregation, to make atonement for them before the LORD?
Leviticus 10:18 Behold, as I commanded.”
Leviticus 10:19 And Aaron said to Moses, “Behold, would the LORD have approved?”
Leviticus 10:20 And when Moses heard that, he approved.
Leviticus 11:1 And the LORD spoke to Moses and Aaron, saying to them,
Leviticus 11:2 “Speak to the people of Israel, saying, These are the living things that you may eat among all the animals that are on the earth.
Leviticus 11:3 Whatever parts the hoof and is cloven-footed and chews the cud, among the animals, you may eat.
Leviticus 11:4 Nevertheless, among those that chew the cud or part the hoof, you shall not eat these: The camel, because it chews the cud but does not part the hoof, is unclean to you.
Leviticus 11:5 And the rock badger, because it chews the cud but does not part the hoof, is unclean to you.
Leviticus 11:6 And the hare, because it chews the cud but does not part the hoof, is unclean to you.
Leviticus 11:7 And the pig, because it parts the hoof and is cloven-footed but does not chew the cud, is unclean to you.
Leviticus 11:8 You shall not eat any of their flesh, and you shall not touch their carcasses; they are unclean to you.
Leviticus 11:9 “These you may eat, of all that are in the waters. Everything in the waters that has fins and scales, whether in the seas or in the rivers, you may eat.
Leviticus 11:10 But anything in the seas or the rivers that does not have fins and scales, of the swarming creatures in the waters and of the living creatures that are in the waters, is detestable to you.
Leviticus 11:11 You shall regard them as detestable; you shall not eat any of their flesh, and you shall detest their carcasses.
Leviticus 11:12 Everything in the waters that does not have fins and scales is detestable to you.
Leviticus 11:13 “And these you shall detest among the birds;  the bearded vulture, the black vulture,
Leviticus 11:14 the kite, the falcon of any kind,
Leviticus 11:15 every raven of any kind,
Leviticus 11:16 the ostrich, the nighthawk, the sea gull, the hawk of any kind,
Leviticus 11:17 the short-eared owl,
Leviticus 11:18 the barn owl, the tawny owl, the carrion vulture,
Leviticus 11:19 the stork, the heron of any kind, the hoopoe, and the bat.
Leviticus 11:20 “All winged insects that go on all fours are detestable to you.
Leviticus 11:21 Yet among the winged insects that go on all fours you may eat those that have jointed legs above their feet, with which to hop on the ground.
Leviticus 11:22 Of them you may eat: the locust of any kind, the bald locust of any kind, the cricket of any kind, and the grasshopper of any kind.
Leviticus 11:23 But all other winged insects that have four feet are detestable to you.
Leviticus 11:24 “And by these you shall become unclean. Whoever touches their carcass shall be unclean until the evening,
Leviticus 11:25 and whoever carries any part of their carcass shall wash his clothes and be unclean until the evening.
Leviticus 11:26 Every animal that parts the hoof but is not cloven-footed or does not chew the cud is unclean to you. Everyone who touches them shall be unclean.
Leviticus 11:27 And all that walk on their paws, among the animals that go on all fours, are unclean to you. Whoever touches their carcass shall be unclean until the evening,
Leviticus 11:28 and he who carries their carcass shall wash his clothes and be unclean until the evening; they are unclean to you.
Leviticus 11:29 “And these are unclean to you among the swarming things that swarm on the ground: the mole rat, the mouse, the great lizard of any kind,
Leviticus 11:30 the gecko, the monitor lizard, the lizard, the sand lizard, and the chameleon.
Leviticus 11:31 These are unclean to you among all that swarm. Whoever touches them when they are dead shall be unclean until the evening.
Leviticus 11:32 And anything on which any of them falls when they are dead shall be unclean, whether it is an article of wood or a garment or a skin or a sack, any article that is used for any purpose. It must be put into water, and it shall be unclean until the evening; then it shall be clean.
Leviticus 11:33 And if any of them falls into any earthenware vessel, all that is in it shall be unclean, and you shall break it.
Leviticus 11:34 Any food in it that could be eaten, on which water comes, shall be unclean. And all drink that could be drunk from every such vessel shall be unclean.
Leviticus 11:35 And everything on which any part of their carcass falls shall be unclean. Whether oven or stove, it shall be broken in pieces. They are unclean and shall remain unclean for you.
Leviticus 11:36 Nevertheless, a spring or a cistern holding water shall be clean, but whoever touches a carcass in them shall be unclean.
Leviticus 11:37 And if any part of their carcass falls upon any seed grain that is to be sown, it is clean,
Leviticus 11:38 but if water is put on the seed and any part of their carcass falls on it, it is unclean to you.
Leviticus 11:39 “And if any animal which you may eat dies, whoever touches its carcass shall be unclean until the evening,
Leviticus 11:40 and whoever eats of its carcass shall wash his clothes and be unclean until the evening. And whoever carries the carcass shall wash his clothes and be unclean until the evening.
Leviticus 11:41  “Every swarming thing that swarms on the ground is detestable; it shall not be eaten.
Leviticus 11:42 Whatever goes on its belly, and whatever goes on all fours, or whatever has many feet, any swarming thing that swarms on the ground, you shall not eat, for they are detestable.
Leviticus 11:43  You shall not make yourselves detestable with any swarming thing that swarms, and you shall not defile yourselves with them, and become unclean through them.
Leviticus 11:44 For I am the LORD your God. Consecrate yourselves therefore, and You shall not defile yourselves with any swarming thing that crawls on the ground.
Leviticus 11:45  You shall therefore be holy, for I am holy.”
Leviticus 11:46 This is the law about beast and bird and every living creature that moves through the waters and every creature that swarms on the ground,
Leviticus 11:47  to make a distinction between the unclean and the clean and between the living creature that may be eaten and the living creature that may not be eaten.
Leviticus 12:1 The LORD spoke to Moses, saying,
Leviticus 12:2 “Speak to the people of Israel, saying, If a woman conceives and bears a male child, then As at the time of her menstruation, she shall be unclean.
Leviticus 12:3 And on the eighth day the flesh of his foreskin shall be circumcised.
Leviticus 12:4 Then she shall continue for thirty-three days in the blood of her purifying. She shall not touch anything holy, nor come into the sanctuary, until the days of her purifying are completed.
Leviticus 12:5 But if she bears a female child, then she shall be unclean two weeks, as in her menstruation. And she shall continue in the blood of her purifying for sixty-six days.
Leviticus 12:6  “And when the days of her purifying are completed, whether for a son or for a daughter, she shall bring to the priest at the entrance of the tent of meeting a lamb a year old for a burnt offering, and a pigeon or a turtledove for a sin offering,
Leviticus 12:7 and he shall offer it before the LORD and make atonement for her. Then she shall be clean from the flow of her blood. This is the law for her who bears a child, either male or female.
Leviticus 12:8 And if she cannot afford a lamb, then she shall take And the priest shall make atonement for her, and she shall be clean.”
Leviticus 13:1 The LORD spoke to Moses and Aaron, saying,
Leviticus 13:2 “When a person has on the skin of his body a then he shall be brought to Aaron the priest or to one of his sons the priests,
Leviticus 13:3 and the priest shall examine the diseased area on the skin of his body. And if the hair in the diseased area has turned white and the disease appears to be deeper than the skin of his body, it is a case of leprous disease. When the priest has examined him, he shall pronounce him unclean.
Leviticus 13:4 But if the spot is white in the skin of his body and appears no deeper than the skin, and the hair in it has not turned white, the priest shall shut up the diseased person for seven days.
Leviticus 13:5 And the priest shall examine him on the seventh day, and if in his eyes the disease is checked and the disease has not spread in the skin, then the priest shall shut him up for another seven days.
Leviticus 13:6 And the priest shall examine him again on the seventh day, and if the diseased area has faded and the disease has not spread in the skin, then the priest shall pronounce him clean; it is only an eruption. And he shall wash his clothes and be clean.
Leviticus 13:7 But if the eruption spreads in the skin, after he has shown himself to the priest for his cleansing, he shall appear again before the priest.
Leviticus 13:8 And the priest shall look, and if the eruption has spread in the skin, then the priest shall pronounce him unclean; it is a leprous disease.
Leviticus 13:9 “When a man is afflicted with a leprous disease, he shall be brought to the priest,
Leviticus 13:10 and the priest shall look. And if there is a white swelling in the skin that has turned the hair white, and there is raw flesh in the swelling,
Leviticus 13:11 it is a chronic leprous disease in the skin of his body, and the priest shall pronounce him unclean. He shall not shut him up, for he is unclean.
Leviticus 13:12 And if the leprous disease breaks out in the skin, so that the leprous disease covers all the skin of the diseased person from head to foot, so far as the priest can see,
Leviticus 13:13 then the priest shall look, and if the leprous disease has covered all his body, he shall pronounce him clean of the disease; it has all turned white, and he is clean.
Leviticus 13:14 But when raw flesh appears on him, he shall be unclean.
Leviticus 13:15 And the priest shall examine the raw flesh and pronounce him unclean. Raw flesh is unclean, for it is a leprous disease.
Leviticus 13:16 But if the raw flesh recovers and turns white again, then he shall come to the priest,
Leviticus 13:17 and the priest shall examine him, and if the disease has turned white, then the priest shall pronounce the diseased person clean; he is clean.
Leviticus 13:18 “If there is in the skin of one's body a boil and it heals,
Leviticus 13:19 and in the place of the boil there comes a white swelling or a reddish-white spot, then it shall be shown to the priest.
Leviticus 13:20 And the priest shall look, and if it appears deeper than the skin and its hair has turned white, then the priest shall pronounce him unclean. It is a case of leprous disease that has broken out in the boil.
Leviticus 13:21 But if the priest examines it and there is no white hair in it and it is not deeper than the skin, but has faded, then the priest shall shut him up seven days.
Leviticus 13:22 And if it spreads in the skin, then the priest shall pronounce him unclean; it is a disease.
Leviticus 13:23 But if the spot remains in one place and does not spread, it is the scar of the boil, and the priest shall pronounce him clean.
Leviticus 13:24 “Or, when the body has a burn on its skin and the raw flesh of the burn becomes a spot, reddish-white or white,
Leviticus 13:25 the priest shall examine it, and if the hair in the spot has turned white and it appears deeper than the skin, then it is a leprous disease. It has broken out in the burn, and the priest shall pronounce him unclean; it is a case of leprous disease.
Leviticus 13:26 But if the priest examines it and there is no white hair in the spot and it is no deeper than the skin, but has faded, the priest shall shut him up seven days,
Leviticus 13:27 and the priest shall examine him the seventh day. If it is spreading in the skin, then the priest shall pronounce him unclean; it is a case of leprous disease.
Leviticus 13:28 But if the spot remains in one place and does not spread in the skin, but has faded, it is a swelling from the burn, and the priest shall pronounce him clean, for it is the scar of the burn.
Leviticus 13:29 “When a man or woman has a disease on the head or the beard,
Leviticus 13:30 the priest shall examine the disease. And if it appears deeper than the skin, and the hair in it is yellow and thin, then the priest shall pronounce him unclean. It is an itch, a leprous disease of the head or the beard.
Leviticus 13:31 And if the priest examines the itching disease and it appears no deeper than the skin and there is no black hair in it, then the priest shall shut up the person with the itching disease for seven days,
Leviticus 13:32 and on the seventh day the priest shall examine the disease. If the itch has not spread, and there is in it no yellow hair, and the itch appears to be no deeper than the skin,
Leviticus 13:33 then he shall shave himself, but the itch he shall not shave; and the priest shall shut up the person with the itching disease for another seven days.
Leviticus 13:34 And on the seventh day the priest shall examine the itch, and if the itch has not spread in the skin and it appears to be no deeper than the skin, then the priest shall pronounce him clean. And he shall wash his clothes and be clean.
Leviticus 13:35 But if the itch spreads in the skin after his cleansing,
Leviticus 13:36 then the priest shall examine him, and if the itch has spread in the skin, the priest need not seek for the yellow hair; he is unclean.
Leviticus 13:37 But if in his eyes the itch is unchanged and black hair has grown in it, the itch is healed and he is clean, and the priest shall pronounce him clean.
Leviticus 13:38 “When a man or a woman has spots on the skin of the body, white spots,
Leviticus 13:39 the priest shall look, and if the spots on the skin of the body are of a dull white, it is leukoderma that has broken out in the skin; he is clean.
Leviticus 13:40 “If a man's hair falls out from his head, he is bald; he is clean.
Leviticus 13:41 And if a man's hair falls out from his forehead, he has baldness of the forehead; he is clean.
Leviticus 13:42 But if there is on the bald head or the bald forehead a reddish-white diseased area, it is a leprous disease breaking out on his bald head or his bald forehead.
Leviticus 13:43 Then the priest shall examine him, and if the diseased swelling is reddish-white on his bald head or on his bald forehead, like the appearance of leprous disease in the skin of the body,
Leviticus 13:44 he is a leprous man, he is unclean. The priest must pronounce him unclean; his disease is on his head.
Leviticus 13:45 “The leprous person who has the disease shall wear torn clothes and ‘Unclean, unclean.’
Leviticus 13:46 He shall remain unclean as long as he has the disease. He is unclean. He shall live alone. His dwelling shall be outside the camp.
Leviticus 13:47 “When there is a case of leprous disease in a garment, whether a woolen or a linen garment,
Leviticus 13:48 in warp or woof of linen or wool, or in a skin or in anything made of skin,
Leviticus 13:49 if the disease is greenish or reddish in the garment, or in the skin or in the warp or the woof or in any article made of skin, it is a case of leprous disease, and it shall be shown to the priest.
Leviticus 13:50 And the priest shall examine the disease and shut up that which has the disease for seven days.
Leviticus 13:51 Then he shall examine the disease on the seventh day. If the disease has spread in the garment, in the warp or the woof, or in the skin, whatever be the use of the skin, the disease is a persistent leprous disease; it is unclean.
Leviticus 13:52 And he shall burn the garment, or the warp or the woof, the wool or the linen, or any article made of skin that is diseased, for it is a persistent leprous disease. It shall be burned in the fire.
Leviticus 13:53 “And if the priest examines, and if the disease has not spread in the garment, in the warp or the woof or in any article made of skin,
Leviticus 13:54 then the priest shall command that they wash the thing in which is the disease, and he shall shut it up for another seven days.
Leviticus 13:55 And the priest shall examine the diseased thing after it has been washed. And if the appearance of the diseased area has not changed, though the disease has not spread, it is unclean. You shall burn it in the fire, whether the rot is on the back or on the front.
Leviticus 13:56 “But if the priest examines, and if the diseased area has faded after it has been washed, he shall tear it out of the garment or the skin or the warp or the woof.
Leviticus 13:57 Then if it appears again in the garment, in the warp or the woof, or in any article made of skin, it is spreading. You shall burn with fire whatever has the disease.
Leviticus 13:58 But the garment, or the warp or the woof, or any article made of skin from which the disease departs when you have washed it, shall then be washed a second time, and be clean.”
Leviticus 13:59 This is the law for a case of leprous disease in a garment of wool or linen, either in the warp or the woof, or in any article made of skin, to determine whether it is clean or unclean.
Leviticus 14:1 The LORD spoke to Moses, saying,
Leviticus 14:2 “This shall be the law of the leprous person for the day of his cleansing. He shall be brought to the priest,
Leviticus 14:3 and the priest shall go out of the camp, and the priest shall look. Then, if the case of leprous disease is healed in the leprous person,
Leviticus 14:4 the priest shall command them to take for him who is to be cleansed two live hyssop.
Leviticus 14:5 And the priest shall command them to kill one of the birds in an earthenware vessel over fresh  water.
Leviticus 14:6 He shall take the live bird with the cedarwood and the scarlet yarn and the hyssop, and dip them and the live bird in the blood of the bird that was killed over the fresh water.
Leviticus 14:7 And he shall into the open field.
Leviticus 14:8 And he who is to be cleansed live outside his tent seven days.
Leviticus 14:9 And shall wash his clothes and bathe his body in water, and he shall be clean.
Leviticus 14:10 “And on the eighth day he  of oil.
Leviticus 14:11 And the priest who cleanses him shall set the man who is to be cleansed and these things before the LORD, at the entrance of the tent of meeting.
Leviticus 14:12 And the priest shall take one of the male lambs and wave them for a wave offering before the LORD.
Leviticus 14:13 And he shall kill the lamb it is most holy.
Leviticus 14:14 The priest shall take some of the blood of the guilt offering, and the priest shall put it on the lobe of the right ear of him who is to be cleansed and on the thumb of his right hand and on the big toe of his right foot.
Leviticus 14:15 Then the priest shall take some of the log of oil and pour it into the palm of his own left hand
Leviticus 14:16 and dip his right finger in the oil that is in his left hand and sprinkle some oil with his finger seven times before the LORD.
Leviticus 14:17 And some of the oil that remains in his hand the priest shall put on the lobe of the right ear of him who is to be cleansed and on the thumb of his right hand and on the big toe of his right foot, on top of the blood of the guilt offering.
Leviticus 14:18 And the rest of the oil that is in the priest's hand he shall put on the head of him who is to be cleansed. Then the priest shall make atonement for him before the LORD.
Leviticus 14:19 The priest shall offer the sin offering, to make atonement for him who is to be cleansed from his uncleanness. And afterward he shall kill the burnt offering.
Leviticus 14:20 And the priest shall offer the burnt offering and the Thus the priest shall make atonement for him, and he shall be clean.
Leviticus 14:21 “But to be waved, to make atonement for him, and a tenth of an ephah of fine flour mixed with oil for a grain offering, and a log of oil;
Leviticus 14:22  also two turtledoves or two pigeons, whichever he can afford. The one shall be a sin offering and the other a burnt offering.
Leviticus 14:23  And on the eighth day he shall bring them for his cleansing to the priest, to the entrance of the tent of meeting, before the LORD.
Leviticus 14:24  And the priest shall take the lamb of the guilt offering and the log of oil, and the priest shall wave them for a wave offering before the LORD.
Leviticus 14:25 And he shall kill the lamb of the guilt offering. And the priest shall take some of the blood of the guilt offering and put it on the lobe of the right ear of him who is to be cleansed, and on the thumb of his right hand and on the big toe of his right foot.
Leviticus 14:26 And the priest shall pour some of the oil into the palm of his own left hand,
Leviticus 14:27 and shall sprinkle with his right finger some of the oil that is in his left hand seven times before the LORD.
Leviticus 14:28 And the priest shall put some of the oil that is in his hand on the lobe of the right ear of him who is to be cleansed and on the thumb of his right hand and on the big toe of his right foot, in the place where the blood of the guilt offering was put.
Leviticus 14:29 And the rest of the oil that is in the priest's hand he shall put on the head of him who is to be cleansed, to make atonement for him before the LORD.
Leviticus 14:30 And he shall offer, of the turtledoves or pigeons, whichever he can afford,
Leviticus 14:31 one And the priest shall make atonement before the LORD for him who is being cleansed.
Leviticus 14:32 This is the law for him in whom is a case of leprous disease, who cannot afford the offerings for his cleansing.”
Leviticus 14:33 The LORD spoke to Moses and Aaron, saying,
Leviticus 14:34 “When you come into the land of Canaan, which I give you for a possession, and I put a case of leprous disease in a house in the land of your possession,
Leviticus 14:35 then he who owns the house shall come and tell the priest, ‘There seems to me to be some case of disease in my house.’
Leviticus 14:36 Then the priest shall command that they empty the house before the priest goes to examine the disease, lest all that is in the house be declared unclean. And afterward the priest shall go in to see the house.
Leviticus 14:37 And he shall examine the disease. And if the disease is in the walls of the house with greenish or reddish spots, and if it appears to be deeper than the surface,
Leviticus 14:38 then the priest shall go out of the house to the door of the house and shut up the house seven days.
Leviticus 14:39 And the priest shall come again on the seventh day, and look. If the disease has spread in the walls of the house,
Leviticus 14:40 then the priest shall command that they take out the stones in which is the disease and throw them into an unclean place outside the city.
Leviticus 14:41 And he shall have the inside of the house scraped all around, and the plaster that they scrape off they shall pour out in an unclean place outside the city.
Leviticus 14:42 Then they shall take other stones and put them in the place of those stones, and he shall take other plaster and plaster the house.
Leviticus 14:43 “If the disease breaks out again in the house, after he has taken out the stones and scraped the house and plastered it,
Leviticus 14:44 then the priest shall go and look. And if the disease has spread in the house, it is a persistent leprous disease in the house; it is unclean.
Leviticus 14:45 And he shall break down the house, its stones and timber and all the plaster of the house, and he shall carry them out of the city to an unclean place.
Leviticus 14:46 Moreover, whoever enters the house while it is shut up shall be unclean until the evening,
Leviticus 14:47 and whoever sleeps in the house shall wash his clothes, and whoever eats in the house shall wash his clothes.
Leviticus 14:48 “But if the priest comes and looks, and if the disease has not spread in the house after the house was plastered, then the priest shall pronounce the house clean, for the disease is healed.
Leviticus 14:49 And for the two small birds, with cedarwood and scarlet yarn and hyssop,
Leviticus 14:50 and shall kill one of the birds in an earthenware vessel over fresh water
Leviticus 14:51 and shall take the cedarwood and the hyssop and the scarlet yarn, along with the live bird, and dip them in the blood of the bird that was killed and in the fresh water and sprinkle the house seven times.
Leviticus 14:52 Thus he shall cleanse the house with the blood of the bird and with the fresh water and with the live bird and with the cedarwood and hyssop and scarlet yarn.
Leviticus 14:53 And he shall let the live bird go out of the city make atonement for the house, and it shall be clean.”
Leviticus 14:54 This is the law for any case of leprous disease: for an itch,
Leviticus 14:55 for a house,
Leviticus 14:56 and for a swelling or an eruption or a spot,
Leviticus 14:57 to show when it is unclean and when it is clean. This is the law for leprous disease.
Leviticus 15:1 The LORD spoke to Moses and Aaron, saying,
Leviticus 15:2 “Speak to the people of Israel and say to them,  his discharge is unclean.
Leviticus 15:3 And this is the law of his uncleanness for a discharge: whether his body runs with his discharge, or his body is blocked up by his discharge, it is his uncleanness.
Leviticus 15:4 Every bed on which the one with the discharge lies shall be unclean, and everything on which he sits shall be unclean.
Leviticus 15:5 And anyone who touches his bed bathe himself in water and be unclean until the evening.
Leviticus 15:6 And whoever sits on anything on which the one with the discharge has sat shall wash his clothes and bathe himself in water and be unclean until the evening.
Leviticus 15:7 And whoever touches the body of the one with the discharge shall wash his clothes and bathe himself in water and be unclean until the evening.
Leviticus 15:8 And if the one with the discharge spits on someone who is clean, then he shall wash his clothes and bathe himself in water and be unclean until the evening.
Leviticus 15:9 And any saddle on which the one with the discharge rides shall be unclean.
Leviticus 15:10 And whoever touches anything that was under him shall be unclean until the evening. And whoever carries such things shall wash his clothes and bathe himself in water and be unclean until the evening.
Leviticus 15:11 Anyone whom the one with the discharge touches without having rinsed his hands in water shall wash his clothes and bathe himself in water and be unclean until the evening.
Leviticus 15:12 And an earthenware vessel that the one with the discharge touches shall be broken, and every vessel of wood shall be rinsed in water.
Leviticus 15:13 “And when the one with a discharge is cleansed of his discharge, then he shall count for himself seven days for his cleansing, and wash his clothes. And he shall bathe his body in fresh water and shall be clean.
Leviticus 15:14 And on the eighth day he shall take two turtledoves or two pigeons and come before the LORD to the entrance of the tent of meeting and give them to the priest.
Leviticus 15:15 And the priest shall use them, And the priest shall make atonement for him before the LORD for his discharge.
Leviticus 15:16  “If a man has an emission of semen, he shall bathe his whole body in water and be unclean until the evening.
Leviticus 15:17 And every garment and every skin on which the semen comes shall be washed with water and be unclean until the evening.
Leviticus 15:18 If a man lies with a woman and has an emission of semen, both of them shall bathe themselves in water and be unclean until the evening.
Leviticus 15:19 “When a woman has a discharge, and the discharge in her body is blood, she shall be in her menstrual impurity for seven days, and whoever touches her shall be unclean until the evening.
Leviticus 15:20  And everything on which she lies during her menstrual impurity shall be unclean. Everything also on which she sits shall be unclean.
Leviticus 15:21 And whoever touches her bed shall wash his clothes and bathe himself in water and be unclean until the evening.
Leviticus 15:22 And whoever touches anything on which she sits shall wash his clothes and bathe himself in water and be unclean until the evening.
Leviticus 15:23 Whether it is the bed or anything on which she sits, when he touches it he shall be unclean until the evening.
Leviticus 15:24 And if any man lies with her and her menstrual impurity comes upon him, he shall be unclean seven days, and every bed on which he lies shall be unclean.
Leviticus 15:25 “If a woman has a discharge of blood for many days, not at the time of her menstrual impurity, or if she has a discharge beyond the time of her impurity, all the days of the discharge she shall continue in uncleanness. As in the days of her impurity, she shall be unclean.
Leviticus 15:26 Every bed on which she lies, all the days of her discharge, shall be to her as the bed of her impurity. And everything on which she sits shall be unclean, as in the uncleanness of her menstrual impurity.
Leviticus 15:27 And whoever touches these things shall be unclean, and shall wash his clothes and bathe himself in water and be unclean until the evening.
Leviticus 15:28 But if she is cleansed of her discharge, she shall count for herself seven days, and after that she shall be clean.
Leviticus 15:29 And on the eighth day she shall take two turtledoves or two pigeons and bring them to the priest, to the entrance of the tent of meeting.
Leviticus 15:30 And the priest shall use one for a sin offering and the other for a burnt offering. And the priest shall make atonement for her before the LORD for her unclean discharge.
Leviticus 15:31 “Thus you shall keep the people of Israel separate from their uncleanness, lest they die in their uncleanness by defiling my tabernacle that is in their midst.”
Leviticus 15:32 This is the law for him who has an emission of semen, becoming unclean thereby;
Leviticus 15:33  man who lies with a woman who is unclean.
Leviticus 16:1 The LORD spoke to Moses after the death of the two sons of Aaron, when they drew near before the LORD and died,
Leviticus 16:2 and the LORD said to Moses, “Tell Aaron your brother not to I will appear in the cloud over the mercy seat.
Leviticus 16:3 But in this way Aaron shall come into the Holy Place: a ram for a burnt offering.
Leviticus 16:4 He shall put on He shall bathe his body in water and then put them on.
Leviticus 16:5 And he shall take from the congregation of the people of Israel two male goats for a sin offering, and one ram for a burnt offering.
Leviticus 16:6 “Aaron shall make atonement for himself and for his house.
Leviticus 16:7 Then he shall take the two goats and set them before the LORD at the entrance of the tent of meeting.
Leviticus 16:8 And Aaron shall cast lots over the two goats, one lot for the LORD and the other lot for
Leviticus 16:9 And Aaron shall present the goat on which the lot fell for the LORD and use it as a sin offering,
Leviticus 16:10 but the goat on which the lot fell for Azazel.
Leviticus 16:11 “Aaron shall present the bull as a sin offering for himself, and shall make atonement for himself and for his house. He shall kill the bull as a sin offering for himself.
Leviticus 16:12 And he shall take a censer full of coals of fire from the altar before the LORD, and two handfuls of sweet incense beaten small, and he shall bring it inside the veil
Leviticus 16:13  the mercy seat that is over the testimony, so that he does not die.
Leviticus 16:14 And he shall take some of the blood of the bull and sprinkle it with his finger on the front of the mercy seat on the east side, and in front of the mercy seat he shall sprinkle some of the blood with his finger seven times.
Leviticus 16:15  inside the veil and do with its blood as he did with the blood of the bull, sprinkling it over the mercy seat and in front of the mercy seat.
Leviticus 16:16 Thus he shall make atonement for the Holy Place, because of the uncleannesses of the people of Israel and because of their transgressions, all their sins. And so he shall do for the tent of meeting, which dwells with them in the midst of their uncleannesses.
Leviticus 16:17  No one may be in the tent of meeting from the time he enters to make atonement in the Holy Place until he comes out and has made atonement for himself and for his house and for all the assembly of Israel.
Leviticus 16:18 Then he shall go out to the altar that is make atonement for it, and shall take some of the blood of the bull and some of the blood of the goat, and put it on the horns of the altar all around.
Leviticus 16:19 And he shall sprinkle some of the blood on it with his finger seven times, and cleanse it and consecrate it from the uncleannesses of the people of Israel.
Leviticus 16:20 “And when he has made an end of atoning for the Holy Place and the tent of meeting and the altar, he shall present the live goat.
Leviticus 16:21 And Aaron shall lay both his hands on the head of the live goat, and confess over it all the iniquities of the people of Israel, and all their transgressions, all their sins. And he shall put them on the head of the goat and send it away into the wilderness by the hand of a man who is in readiness.
Leviticus 16:22 The goat shall he shall let the goat go free in the wilderness.
Leviticus 16:23 “Then Aaron shall come into the tent of meeting and shall take off the linen garments that he put on when he went into the Holy Place and shall leave them there.
Leviticus 16:24 And he shall bathe his body in water in a holy place and put on his garments and come out and offer his burnt offering and the burnt offering of the people and make atonement for himself and for the people.
Leviticus 16:25 And the fat of the sin offering he shall burn on the altar.
Leviticus 16:26 And he who lets the goat go to bathe his body in water, and afterward he may come into the camp.
Leviticus 16:27  And the bull for the sin offering and the goat for the sin offering, whose blood was brought in to make atonement in the Holy Place, shall be carried outside the camp. Their skin and their flesh and their dung shall be burned up with fire.
Leviticus 16:28 And he who burns them shall wash his clothes and bathe his body in water, and afterward he may come into the camp.
Leviticus 16:29 “And it shall be a statute to you forever that the native or the stranger who sojourns among you.
Leviticus 16:30 For on this day shall atonement be made for you to cleanse you. You shall be clean before the LORD from all your sins.
Leviticus 16:31  afflict yourselves; it is a statute forever.
Leviticus 16:32  shall make atonement, wearing the holy linen garments.
Leviticus 16:33 He shall make atonement for all the people of the assembly.
Leviticus 16:34 And this shall be a statute forever for you, that atonement may be made for the people of Israel  did as the LORD commanded Moses.
Leviticus 17:1 And the LORD spoke to Moses, saying,
Leviticus 17:2 “Speak to Aaron and his sons and to all the people of Israel and say to them, This is the thing that the LORD has commanded.
Leviticus 17:3 If any one of the house of Israel kills an ox or a lamb or a goat in the camp, or kills it outside the camp,
Leviticus 17:4 and shall be cut off from among his people.
Leviticus 17:5 This is to the end that the people of Israel may bring their sacrifices that they sacrifice as sacrifices of peace offerings to the LORD.
Leviticus 17:6 And the priest shall for a pleasing aroma to the LORD.
Leviticus 17:7 So they shall no more sacrifice their sacrifices to goat demons, after whom they whore. This shall be a statute forever for them throughout their generations.
Leviticus 17:8 “And you shall say to them, Any one of the house of Israel, or of the strangers who sojourn among them, who offers a burnt offering or sacrifice
Leviticus 17:9 and that man shall be cut off from his people.
Leviticus 17:10 “If any one of the house of Israel or of the strangers who sojourn among them set my face against that person who eats blood and will cut him off from among his people.
Leviticus 17:11  for it is the blood that makes atonement by the life.
Leviticus 17:12 Therefore I have said to the people of Israel, No person among you shall eat blood, neither shall any stranger who sojourns among you eat blood.
Leviticus 17:13 “Any one also of the people of Israel, or of the strangers who sojourn among them, who takes in hunting any beast or bird that may be eaten shall cover it with earth.
Leviticus 17:14 For the life of every creature  Therefore I have said to the people of Israel, You shall not eat the blood of any creature, for the life of every creature is its blood. Whoever eats it shall be cut off.
Leviticus 17:15  bathe himself in water and be unclean until the evening; then he shall be clean.
Leviticus 17:16 But if he does not wash them or bathe his flesh, he shall bear his iniquity.”
Leviticus 18:1 And the LORD spoke to Moses, saying,
Leviticus 18:2 “Speak to the people of Israel and say to them, I am the LORD your God.
Leviticus 18:3  you shall not do as they do in the land of Canaan, to which I am bringing you. You shall not walk in their statutes.
Leviticus 18:4  I am the LORD your God.
Leviticus 18:5  if a person does them, he shall live by them: I am the LORD.
Leviticus 18:6 “None of you shall approach any one of his close relatives to uncover nakedness. I am the LORD.
Leviticus 18:7  You shall not uncover the nakedness of your father, which is the nakedness of your mother; she is your mother, you shall not uncover her nakedness.
Leviticus 18:8  You shall not uncover the nakedness of your father's wife; it is your father's nakedness.
Leviticus 18:9  You shall not uncover the nakedness of your sister, your father's daughter or your mother's daughter, whether brought up in the family or in another home.
Leviticus 18:10 You shall not uncover the nakedness of your son's daughter or of your daughter's daughter, for their nakedness is your own nakedness.
Leviticus 18:11 You shall not uncover the nakedness of your father's wife's daughter, brought up in your father's family, since she is your sister.
Leviticus 18:12 You shall not uncover the nakedness of your father's sister; she is your father's relative.
Leviticus 18:13 You shall not uncover the nakedness of your mother's sister, for she is your mother's relative.
Leviticus 18:14 You shall not uncover the nakedness of your father's brother, that is, you shall not approach his wife; she is your aunt.
Leviticus 18:15  You shall not uncover the nakedness of your daughter-in-law; she is your son's wife, you shall not uncover her nakedness.
Leviticus 18:16  You shall not uncover the nakedness of your brother's wife; it is your brother's nakedness.
Leviticus 18:17 You shall not uncover the nakedness of a woman and of her daughter, and you shall not take her son's daughter or her daughter's daughter to uncover her nakedness; they are relatives; it is depravity.
Leviticus 18:18 And you shall not take a woman as a while her sister is still alive.
Leviticus 18:19  “You shall not approach a woman to uncover her nakedness while she is in her menstrual uncleanness.
Leviticus 18:20  And you shall not lie sexually with your neighbor's wife and so make yourself unclean with her.
Leviticus 18:21 You shall not give any of your children to profane the name of your God: I am the LORD.
Leviticus 18:22  You shall not lie with a male as with a woman; it is an abomination.
Leviticus 18:23  perversion.
Leviticus 18:24  for by all these the nations I am driving out before you have become unclean,
Leviticus 18:25 and the vomited out its inhabitants.
Leviticus 18:26 But native or the stranger who sojourns among you
Leviticus 18:27 (for the people of the land, who were before you, did all of these abominations, so that the land became unclean),
Leviticus 18:28 lest the land vomit you out when you make it unclean, as it vomited out the nation that was before you.
Leviticus 18:29 For everyone who does any of these abominations, the persons who do them shall be cut off from among their people.
Leviticus 18:30  I am the LORD your God.”
Leviticus 19:1 And the LORD spoke to Moses, saying,
Leviticus 19:2 “Speak to all the congregation of the people of Israel and say to them, You shall be holy, for I the LORD your God am holy.
Leviticus 19:3  you shall keep my Sabbaths: I am the LORD your God.
Leviticus 19:4  or make for yourselves any gods of cast metal: I am the LORD your God.
Leviticus 19:5  that you may be accepted.
Leviticus 19:6 It shall be eaten the same day you offer it or on the day after, and anything left over until the third day shall be burned up with fire.
Leviticus 19:7 If it is eaten at all on the third day, it is tainted; it will not be accepted,
Leviticus 19:8 and everyone who eats it shall he has profaned what is holy to the LORD, and that person shall be cut off from his people.
Leviticus 19:9  “When you reap the harvest of your land, you shall not reap your field right up to its edge, neither shall you gather the gleanings after your harvest.
Leviticus 19:10 And you shall not strip your vineyard bare, neither shall you gather the fallen grapes of your vineyard. You shall leave them for the poor and for the sojourner: I am the LORD your God.
Leviticus 19:11  you shall not deal falsely; you shall not lie to one another.
Leviticus 19:12  profane the name of your God: I am the LORD.
Leviticus 19:13  The wages of a hired worker shall not remain with you all night until the morning.
Leviticus 19:14  fear your God: I am the LORD.
Leviticus 19:15  “You shall do no injustice in court. You shall not be partial to the poor or defer to the great, but in righteousness shall you judge your neighbor.
Leviticus 19:16   of your neighbor: I am the LORD.
Leviticus 19:17  incur sin because of him.
Leviticus 19:18  you shall love your neighbor as yourself: I am the LORD.
Leviticus 19:19  You shall not sow your field with two kinds of seed, nor shall you wear a garment of cloth made of two kinds of material.
Leviticus 19:20 “If a man lies sexually with a woman who is a slave, assigned to another man and not yet ransomed or given her freedom, a distinction shall be made. They shall not be put to death, because she was not free;
Leviticus 19:21 but he shall bring his compensation to the LORD, to the entrance of the tent of meeting, a ram for a guilt offering.
Leviticus 19:22 And the priest shall make atonement for him with the ram of the guilt offering before the LORD for his sin that he has committed, and he shall be forgiven for the sin that he has committed.
Leviticus 19:23 “When you come into the land and plant any kind of tree for food, then you shall regard its fruit as forbidden.  Three years it shall be forbidden to you; it must not be eaten.
Leviticus 19:24 And in the fourth year all its fruit shall be holy, an offering of praise to the LORD.
Leviticus 19:25 But in the fifth year you may eat of its fruit, to increase its yield for you: I am the LORD your God.
Leviticus 19:26  tell fortunes.
Leviticus 19:27  You shall not round off the hair on your temples or mar the edges of your beard.
Leviticus 19:28 You shall not make any cuts on your body for the dead or tattoo yourselves: I am the LORD.
Leviticus 19:29  “Do not profane your daughter by making her a prostitute, lest the land fall into prostitution and the land become full of depravity.
Leviticus 19:30  reverence my sanctuary: I am the LORD.
Leviticus 19:31  “Do not turn to mediums or necromancers; do not seek them out, and so make yourselves unclean by them: I am the LORD your God.
Leviticus 19:32  fear your God: I am the LORD.
Leviticus 19:33  “When a stranger sojourns with you in your land, you shall not do him wrong.
Leviticus 19:34  you shall love him as yourself, for you were strangers in the land of Egypt: I am the LORD your God.
Leviticus 19:35  “You shall do no wrong in judgment, in measures of length or weight or quantity.
Leviticus 19:36   I am the LORD your God, who brought you out of the land of Egypt.
Leviticus 19:37 And you shall observe all my statutes and all my rules, and do them: I am the LORD.”
Leviticus 20:1 The LORD spoke to Moses, saying,
Leviticus 20:2 “Say to the people of Israel, Any one of the people of Israel or of the strangers who sojourn in Israel who gives any of his children to Molech shall surely be put to death. The people of the land shall stone him with stones.
Leviticus 20:3  to profane my holy name.
Leviticus 20:4 And if the people of the land do at all close their eyes to that man when he gives one of his children to Molech, and do not put him to death,
Leviticus 20:5 then I will set my face against that man and against his clan and will cut them off from among their people, him and all who follow him in whoring after Molech.
Leviticus 20:6 “If I will set my face against that person and will cut him off from among his people.
Leviticus 20:7  Consecrate yourselves, therefore, and be holy, for I am the LORD your God.
Leviticus 20:8  I am the LORD who sanctifies you.
Leviticus 20:9 For his blood is upon him.
Leviticus 20:10 “If a  his neighbor, both the adulterer and the adulteress shall surely be put to death.
Leviticus 20:11  If a man lies with his father's wife, he has uncovered his father's nakedness; both of them shall surely be put to death; their blood is upon them.
Leviticus 20:12  perversion; their blood is upon them.
Leviticus 20:13  If a man lies with a male as with a woman, both of them have committed an abomination; they shall surely be put to death; their blood is upon them.
Leviticus 20:14  If a man takes a woman and her mother also, it is depravity; he and they shall be burned with fire, that there may be no depravity among you.
Leviticus 20:15  If a man lies with an animal, he shall surely be put to death, and you shall kill the animal.
Leviticus 20:16  If a woman approaches any animal and lies with it, you shall kill the woman and the animal; they shall surely be put to death; their blood is upon them.
Leviticus 20:17  “If a man takes his sister, a daughter of his father or a daughter of his mother, and sees her nakedness, and she sees his nakedness, it is a disgrace, and they shall be cut off in the sight of the children of their people. He has uncovered his sister's nakedness, and he shall bear his iniquity.
Leviticus 20:18  If a man lies with a woman during her menstrual period and uncovers her nakedness, he has made naked her fountain, and she has uncovered the fountain of her blood. Both of them shall be cut off from among their people.
Leviticus 20:19  one's relative; they shall bear their iniquity.
Leviticus 20:20  If a man lies with his uncle's wife, he has uncovered his uncle's nakedness; they shall bear their sin; they shall die childless.
Leviticus 20:21   He has uncovered his brother's nakedness; they shall be childless.
Leviticus 20:22  vomit you out.
Leviticus 20:23  And you shall not walk in the customs of the nation that I am driving out before you, for they did all these things, and therefore I detested them.
Leviticus 20:24 But who has separated you from the peoples.
Leviticus 20:25  You shall therefore separate the clean beast from the unclean, and the unclean bird from the clean. You shall not make yourselves detestable by beast or by bird or by anything with which the ground crawls, which I have set apart for you to hold unclean.
Leviticus 20:26  for I the LORD am holy and have separated you from the peoples, that you should be mine.
Leviticus 20:27  their blood shall be upon them.”
Leviticus 21:1 And the LORD said to Moses, “Speak to the priests, the sons of Aaron, and say to them, No one shall make himself unclean for the dead among his people,
Leviticus 21:2 except for his closest relatives, his mother, his father, his son, his daughter, his brother,
Leviticus 21:3 or his virgin sister (who is near to him because she has had no husband; for her he may make himself unclean).
Leviticus 21:4 He shall not make himself unclean as a husband among his people and so profane himself.
Leviticus 21:5  They shall not make bald patches on their heads, nor shave off the edges of their beards, nor make any cuts on their body.
Leviticus 21:6 They shall be holy to their God and the bread of their God; therefore they shall be holy.
Leviticus 21:7  divorced from her husband, for the priest is holy to his God.
Leviticus 21:8 You shall sanctify him, for he offers the bread of your God. He shall be holy to you, for am holy.
Leviticus 21:9 And the daughter of any priest, if she profanes herself by whoring, profanes her father; she shall be burned with fire.
Leviticus 21:10  shall not let the hair of his head hang loose nor tear his clothes.
Leviticus 21:11 He shall not go in to any dead bodies nor make himself unclean, even for his father or for his mother.
Leviticus 21:12  consecration of the anointing oil of his God is on him: I am the LORD.
Leviticus 21:13 And he shall take a wife in her virginity.
Leviticus 21:14 A widow,  of his own people,
Leviticus 21:15 that he may not profane his offspring among his people, for I am the LORD who sanctifies him.”
Leviticus 21:16 And the LORD spoke to Moses, saying,
Leviticus 21:17 “Speak to Aaron, saying, None of your offspring throughout their generations who has a blemish may approach to offer the bread of his God.
Leviticus 21:18 For no one who has a blemish shall draw near, a man or a limb too long,
Leviticus 21:19 or a man who has an injured foot or an injured hand,
Leviticus 21:20 or a hunchback or a dwarf or a man with a crushed testicles.
Leviticus 21:21 No man of the offspring of Aaron the priest who has a blemish shall come near to offer the LORD's food offerings; since he has a blemish, he shall not come near to offer the bread of his God.
Leviticus 21:22 He may eat the bread of his God, both of holy things,
Leviticus 21:23 but he shall not go through the veil or approach the altar, because he has a blemish, that he may not for I am the LORD who sanctifies them.”
Leviticus 21:24 So Moses spoke to Aaron and to his sons and to all the people of Israel.
Leviticus 22:1 And the LORD spoke to Moses, saying,
Leviticus 22:2 “Speak to Aaron and his sons so that they profane my holy name: I am the LORD.
Leviticus 22:3 Say to them, ‘If any one of all your offspring throughout your generations approaches the holy things that the people of Israel dedicate to the LORD, while he has an uncleanness, that person shall be cut off from my presence: I am the LORD.
Leviticus 22:4 None of the offspring of Aaron who has a leprous disease or a a man who has had an emission of semen,
Leviticus 22:5 and a person from whom he may take uncleanness, whatever his uncleanness may be —
Leviticus 22:6 the person who touches such a thing shall be unclean until the evening and shall not eat of the holy things unless he has bathed his body in water.
Leviticus 22:7 When the sun goes down he shall be clean, and afterward he may eat of the holy things, because they are his food.
Leviticus 22:8  He shall not eat what dies of itself or is torn by beasts, and so make himself unclean by it: I am the LORD.’
Leviticus 22:9 They shall therefore keep my charge, I am the LORD who sanctifies them.
Leviticus 22:10  “A lay person shall not eat of a holy thing; no foreign guest of the priest or hired worker shall eat of a holy thing,
Leviticus 22:11 but if a priest buys a slave anyone born in his house may eat of his food.
Leviticus 22:12 If a priest's daughter marries a layman, she shall not eat of the contribution of the holy things.
Leviticus 22:13 But if a priest's daughter is widowed or divorced and has no child and as in her youth, she may eat of her father's food; yet no lay person shall eat of it.
Leviticus 22:14  the fifth of its value to it and give the holy thing to the priest.
Leviticus 22:15 They shall not profane the holy things of the people of Israel, which they contribute to the LORD,
Leviticus 22:16 and so cause them for I am the LORD who sanctifies them.”
Leviticus 22:17 And the LORD spoke to Moses, saying,
Leviticus 22:18 “Speak to Aaron and his sons and all the people of Israel and say to them, When any one of the house of Israel or of the sojourners in Israel presents a burnt offering as his offering, for any of their vows or freewill offerings that they offer to the LORD,
Leviticus 22:19 if it is to be accepted for you it shall be a male without blemish, of the bulls or the sheep or the goats.
Leviticus 22:20  You shall not offer anything that has a blemish, for it will not be acceptable for you.
Leviticus 22:21 And when anyone to fulfill a vow or as a freewill offering from the herd or from the flock, to be accepted it must be perfect; there shall be no blemish in it.
Leviticus 22:22 Animals offering on the altar.
Leviticus 22:23 You may present a bull or a lamb that has a part too long or too short for a freewill offering, but for a vow offering it cannot be accepted.
Leviticus 22:24 Any animal that has its testicles bruised or crushed or torn or cut you shall not offer to the LORD; you shall not do it within your land,
Leviticus 22:25 neither shall you offer as blemish in them, because of their mutilation, they will not be accepted for you.”
Leviticus 22:26 And the LORD spoke to Moses, saying,
Leviticus 22:27  “When an ox or sheep or goat is born, it shall remain seven days with its mother, and from the eighth day on it shall be acceptable as a food offering to the LORD.
Leviticus 22:28 But you shall not kill an ox or a sheep and her young in one day.
Leviticus 22:29 And when you sacrifice a sacrifice of thanksgiving to the LORD, you shall sacrifice it so that you may be accepted.
Leviticus 22:30 It shall be eaten on the same day; you shall leave none of it until morning: I am the LORD.
Leviticus 22:31  “So you shall keep my commandments and do them: I am the LORD.
Leviticus 22:32  I am the LORD who sanctifies you,
Leviticus 22:33 who brought you out of the land of Egypt to be your God: I am the LORD.”
Leviticus 23:1 The LORD spoke to Moses, saying,
Leviticus 23:2 “Speak to the people of Israel and say to them, holy convocations; they are my appointed feasts.
Leviticus 23:3  “Six days shall work be done, but on the seventh day is a Sabbath of solemn rest, a holy convocation. You shall do no work. It is a Sabbath to the LORD in all your dwelling places.
Leviticus 23:4  holy convocations, which you shall proclaim at the time appointed for them.
Leviticus 23:5   is the LORD's Passover.
Leviticus 23:6 And on the fifteenth day of the same month is the Feast of Unleavened Bread to the LORD; for seven days you shall eat unleavened bread.
Leviticus 23:7  On the first day you shall have a holy convocation; you shall not do any ordinary work.
Leviticus 23:8 But you shall present a food offering to the LORD for seven days. On the seventh day is a holy convocation; you shall not do any ordinary work.”
Leviticus 23:9 And the LORD spoke to Moses, saying,
Leviticus 23:10 “Speak to the people of Israel and say to them, the firstfruits of your harvest to the priest,
Leviticus 23:11 and he shall wave the sheaf before the LORD, so that you may be accepted. On the day after the Sabbath the priest shall wave it.
Leviticus 23:12 And on the day when you male lamb a year old without blemish as a burnt offering to the LORD.
Leviticus 23:13
Leviticus 23:14 And you shall eat neither bread nor grain fresh until this same day, until you have brought the offering of your God: it is a statute forever throughout your generations in all your dwellings.
Leviticus 23:15  wave offering.
Leviticus 23:16 You shall count new grain to the LORD.
Leviticus 23:17 You shall bring from your dwelling places two loaves of bread to be waved, made of two tenths of an ephah. They shall be of fine flour, and they shall be baked with leaven, as firstfruits to the LORD.
Leviticus 23:18 And you shall present with the bread seven lambs a year old without blemish, and one bull from the herd and two rams. They shall be a burnt offering to the LORD, with their grain offering and their drink offerings, a food offering with a pleasing aroma to the LORD.
Leviticus 23:19 And you shall offer one peace offerings.
Leviticus 23:20 And the priest shall They shall be holy to the LORD for the priest.
Leviticus 23:21 And you shall make a proclamation on the same day. You shall hold a holy convocation. You shall not do any ordinary work. It is a statute forever in all your dwelling places throughout your generations.
Leviticus 23:22 “And when you reap the harvest of your land, you shall not reap your field right up to its edge, nor shall you gather the gleanings after your harvest. You shall leave them for the poor and for the sojourner: I am the LORD your God.”
Leviticus 23:23 And the LORD spoke to Moses, saying,
Leviticus 23:24 “Speak to the people of Israel, saying, In a memorial proclaimed with blast of trumpets, a holy convocation.
Leviticus 23:25 You shall not do any ordinary work, and you shall present a food offering to the LORD.”
Leviticus 23:26 And the LORD spoke to Moses, saying,
Leviticus 23:27 “Now  and present a food offering to the LORD.
Leviticus 23:28 And you shall not do any work on that very day, for it is a Day of Atonement, to make atonement for you before the LORD your God.
Leviticus 23:29 For whoever is not afflicted shall be cut off from his people.
Leviticus 23:30 And whoever does any work on that very day, that person I will destroy from among his people.
Leviticus 23:31 You shall not do any work. It is a statute forever throughout your generations in all your dwelling places.
Leviticus 23:32 It shall be to you a Sabbath of solemn rest, and you shall afflict yourselves. On the ninth day of the month beginning at evening, from evening to evening shall you keep your Sabbath.”
Leviticus 23:33 And the LORD spoke to Moses, saying,
Leviticus 23:34 “Speak to the people of Israel, saying,  to the LORD.
Leviticus 23:35 On the first day shall be a holy convocation; you shall not do any ordinary work.
Leviticus 23:36 For seven days you shall present food offerings to the LORD. solemn assembly; you shall not do any ordinary work.
Leviticus 23:37  “These are the appointed feasts of the LORD, which you shall proclaim as times of holy convocation, for presenting to the LORD food offerings, burnt offerings and grain offerings, sacrifices and drink offerings, each on its proper day,
Leviticus 23:38  besides the LORD's Sabbaths and besides your gifts and besides all your vow offerings and besides all your freewill offerings, which you give to the LORD.
Leviticus 23:39 “On the fifteenth day of the seventh month, when you have gathered in the produce of the land, you shall celebrate the feast of the LORD seven days. On the first day shall be a solemn rest, and on the eighth day shall be a solemn rest.
Leviticus 23:40 And you shall rejoice before the LORD your God seven days.
Leviticus 23:41  You shall celebrate it as a feast to the LORD for seven days in the year. It is a statute forever throughout your generations; you shall celebrate it in the seventh month.
Leviticus 23:42  You shall dwell in booths for seven days. All native Israelites shall dwell in booths,
Leviticus 23:43 that your generations may know that I made the people of Israel dwell in booths when I brought them out of the land of Egypt: I am the LORD your God.”
Leviticus 23:44 Thus Moses declared to the people of Israel the appointed feasts of the LORD.
Leviticus 24:1  The LORD spoke to Moses, saying,
Leviticus 24:2 “Command the people of Israel to bring you pure oil from beaten olives for the lamp, that a light may be kept burning regularly.
Leviticus 24:3 Outside the veil of the testimony, in the tent of meeting, Aaron shall arrange it from evening to morning before the LORD regularly. It shall be a statute forever throughout your generations.
Leviticus 24:4 He shall arrange the lamps on the  before the LORD regularly.
Leviticus 24:5 “You shall take fine flour and bake twelve  shall be in each loaf.
Leviticus 24:6 And you shall set them in two piles, six in a pile,  before the LORD.
Leviticus 24:7 And you shall put pure frankincense on each pile, that it may go with the bread as a memorial portion as a food offering to the LORD.
Leviticus 24:8  Every Sabbath day Aaron shall arrange it before the LORD regularly; it is from the people of Israel as a covenant forever.
Leviticus 24:9 And they shall eat it in a holy place, since it is for him a most holy portion out of the LORD's food offerings, a perpetual due.”
Leviticus 24:10 Now an Israelite woman's son, whose father was an Egyptian, went out among the people of Israel. And the Israelite woman's son and a man of Israel fought in the camp,
Leviticus 24:11 and the Israelite woman's son brought him to Moses. His mother's name was Shelomith, the daughter of Dibri, of the tribe of Dan.
Leviticus 24:12 And till the will of the LORD should be clear to them.
Leviticus 24:13 Then the LORD spoke to Moses, saying,
Leviticus 24:14  lay their hands on his head, and let all the congregation stone him.
Leviticus 24:15 And speak to the people of Israel, saying, Whoever curses his God shall bear his sin.
Leviticus 24:16 Whoever blasphemes the name of the LORD shall surely be put to death. All the congregation shall stone him. The sojourner as well as the native, when he blasphemes the Name, shall be put to death.
Leviticus 24:17  “Whoever takes a human life shall surely be put to death.
Leviticus 24:18  Whoever takes an animal's life shall make it good, life for life.
Leviticus 24:19 If anyone injures his neighbor, as he has done it shall be done to him,
Leviticus 24:20 fracture for fracture, eye for eye, tooth for tooth; whatever injury he has given a person shall be given to him.
Leviticus 24:21  and whoever kills a person shall be put to death.
Leviticus 24:22 You shall have the same rule for the sojourner and for the native, for I am the LORD your God.”
Leviticus 24:23 So Moses spoke to the people of Israel, and they brought out of the camp the one who had cursed and stoned him with stones. Thus the people of Israel did as the LORD commanded Moses.
Leviticus 25:1  The LORD spoke to Moses on Mount Sinai, saying,
Leviticus 25:2 “Speak to the people of Israel and say to them, When you come into the land that I give you, the land shall keep a Sabbath to the LORD.
Leviticus 25:3 For six years you shall sow your field, and for six years you shall prune your vineyard and gather in its fruits,
Leviticus 25:4 but in the seventh year there shall be a Sabbath of solemn rest for the land, a Sabbath to the LORD. You shall not sow your field or prune your vineyard.
Leviticus 25:5  You shall not reap what grows of itself in your harvest, or gather the grapes of your undressed vine. It shall be a year of solemn rest for the land.
Leviticus 25:6 The Sabbath of the land  and for your hired worker and the sojourner who lives with you,
Leviticus 25:7 and for your cattle and for the wild animals that are in your land: all its yield shall be for food.
Leviticus 25:8 “You shall count seven weeks  of years, seven times seven years, so that the time of the seven weeks of years shall give you forty-nine years.
Leviticus 25:9 Then you shall sound On the Day of Atonement you shall sound the trumpet throughout all your land.
Leviticus 25:10 And you shall consecrate the fiftieth year, and you shall return to his clan.
Leviticus 25:11 That fiftieth year shall be a jubilee for you; in it what grows of itself nor gather the grapes from the undressed vines.
Leviticus 25:12 For it is a jubilee. It shall be holy to you.
Leviticus 25:13  “In this year of jubilee each of you shall return to his property.
Leviticus 25:14 And if you make a sale to your neighbor or buy from your neighbor, you shall not wrong one another.
Leviticus 25:15  You shall pay your neighbor according to the number of years after the jubilee, and he shall sell to you according to the number of years for crops.
Leviticus 25:16 If the years are many, you shall increase the price, and if the years are few, you shall reduce the price, for it is the number of the crops that he is selling to you.
Leviticus 25:17  You shall not wrong one another, but you shall fear your God, for I am the LORD your God.
Leviticus 25:18  you will dwell in the land securely.
Leviticus 25:19  and dwell in it securely.
Leviticus 25:20 And if you say, we may not sow or gather in our crop?’
Leviticus 25:21 I will command my blessing on you in the sixth year, so that it will produce a crop sufficient for three years.
Leviticus 25:22  the old crop; you shall eat the old until the ninth year, when its crop arrives.
Leviticus 25:23 “The land shall not be sold in perpetuity, for the land is mine. For you are strangers and sojourners with me.
Leviticus 25:24 And in all the country you possess, you shall allow a redemption of the land.
Leviticus 25:25 “If your brother becomes poor and sells part of his property, then his nearest redeemer shall come and redeem what his brother has sold.
Leviticus 25:26 If a man has no one to redeem it and then himself becomes prosperous and finds sufficient means to redeem it,
Leviticus 25:27 let him calculate the years since he sold it and pay back the balance to the man to whom he sold it, and then return to his property.
Leviticus 25:28 But if he does not have sufficient means to recover it, then what he sold shall remain in the hand of the buyer until the year of jubilee. In the jubilee it shall he shall return to his property.
Leviticus 25:29 “If a man sells a dwelling house in a walled city, he may redeem it within a year of its sale. For a full year he shall have the right of redemption.
Leviticus 25:30 If it is not redeemed within a full year, then the house in the walled city shall belong in perpetuity to the buyer, throughout his generations; it shall not be released in the jubilee.
Leviticus 25:31 But the houses of the villages that have no wall around them shall be classified with the fields of the land. They may be redeemed, and they shall be released in the jubilee.
Leviticus 25:32 As for the cities of the Levites, the Levites may redeem at any time the houses in the cities they possess.
Leviticus 25:33 And if one of the Levites exercises his right of redemption, then the house that was sold in a city they possess shall be released in the jubilee. For the houses in the cities of the Levites are their possession among the people of Israel.
Leviticus 25:34 But the fields of pastureland belonging to their cities may not be sold, for that is their possession forever.
Leviticus 25:35 “If your brother becomes poor and cannot maintain himself with you, you shall support him as though he were a stranger and a sojourner, and he shall live with you.
Leviticus 25:36  fear your God, that your brother may live beside you.
Leviticus 25:37  You shall not lend him your money at interest, nor give him your food for profit.
Leviticus 25:38  I am the LORD your God, who brought you out of the land of Egypt to give you the land of Canaan, and to be your God.
Leviticus 25:39  “If your brother becomes poor beside you and sells himself to you, you shall not make him serve as a slave:
Leviticus 25:40 he shall be with you as a hired worker and as a sojourner. He shall serve with you until the year of the jubilee.
Leviticus 25:41  to the possession of his fathers.
Leviticus 25:42 For they are  whom I brought out of the land of Egypt; they shall not be sold as slaves.
Leviticus 25:43  shall fear your God.
Leviticus 25:44 As for your male and female slaves whom you may have: you may buy male and female slaves from among the nations that are around you.
Leviticus 25:45  You may also buy from among the strangers who sojourn with you and their clans that are with you, who have been born in your land, and they may be your property.
Leviticus 25:46 You may bequeath them to your sons after you to inherit as a possession forever. You may make slaves of them, but over your brothers the people of Israel you shall not rule, one over another ruthlessly.
Leviticus 25:47 “If a stranger or sojourner with you becomes rich, and your brother beside him becomes poor and sells himself to the stranger or sojourner with you or to a member of the stranger's clan,
Leviticus 25:48 then after he is sold he may be redeemed. One of his brothers may redeem him,
Leviticus 25:49 or his uncle or his cousin may grows rich he may redeem himself.
Leviticus 25:50 He shall calculate with his buyer from the year when he sold himself to him until the year of jubilee, and the price of his sale shall vary with the number of years. The time he was with his owner shall be rated as the time of a hired worker.
Leviticus 25:51 If there are still many years left, he shall pay proportionately for his redemption some of his sale price.
Leviticus 25:52 If there remain but a few years until the year of jubilee, he shall calculate and pay for his redemption in proportion to his years of service.
Leviticus 25:53 He shall treat him as a worker hired year by year. He shall not rule ruthlessly over him in your sight.
Leviticus 25:54 And if he is not redeemed by these means, then he and his children with him shall be released in the year of jubilee.
Leviticus 25:55 For it is  They are my servants whom I brought out of the land of Egypt: I am the LORD your God.
Leviticus 26:1 “You shall not make figured stone in your land to bow down to it, for I am the LORD your God.
Leviticus 26:2  You shall keep my Sabbaths and reverence my sanctuary: I am the LORD.
Leviticus 26:3  “If you walk in my statutes and observe my commandments and do them,
Leviticus 26:4 then I will give you your rains in their season, and the land shall yield its increase, and the trees of the field shall yield their fruit.
Leviticus 26:5  dwell in your land securely.
Leviticus 26:6  and the sword shall not go through your land.
Leviticus 26:7 You shall chase your enemies, and they shall fall before you by the sword.
Leviticus 26:8  Five of you shall chase a hundred, and a hundred of you shall chase ten thousand, and your enemies shall fall before you by the sword.
Leviticus 26:9  make you fruitful and multiply you and will confirm my covenant with you.
Leviticus 26:10 You shall eat old store long kept, and you shall clear out the old to make way for the new.
Leviticus 26:11   among you, and my soul shall not abhor you.
Leviticus 26:12  will walk among you and will be your God, and you shall be my people.
Leviticus 26:13  And I have broken the bars of your yoke and made you walk erect.
Leviticus 26:14  “But if you will not listen to me and will not do all these commandments,
Leviticus 26:15 if you spurn my statutes, and if your soul abhors my rules, so that you will not do all my commandments, but break my covenant,
Leviticus 26:16 then I will do this to you: I will visit you with panic, with you shall sow your seed in vain, for your enemies shall eat it.
Leviticus 26:17 I will you shall flee when none pursues you.
Leviticus 26:18 And if in spite of this you will not listen to me, then I will discipline you again sevenfold for your sins,
Leviticus 26:19 and I will break will make your heavens like iron and your earth like bronze.
Leviticus 26:20 And your land shall not yield its increase, and the trees of the land shall not yield their fruit.
Leviticus 26:21  “Then if you walk contrary to me and will not listen to me, I will continue striking you, sevenfold for your sins.
Leviticus 26:22 And your roads shall be deserted.
Leviticus 26:23 “And but walk contrary to me,
Leviticus 26:24  then I also will walk contrary to you, and I myself will strike you sevenfold for your sins.
Leviticus 26:25 And I will send pestilence among you, and you shall be delivered into the hand of the enemy.
Leviticus 26:26  you shall eat and not be satisfied.
Leviticus 26:27 “But if in spite of this you will not listen to me, but walk contrary to me,
Leviticus 26:28 then I will walk contrary to you sevenfold for your sins.
Leviticus 26:29  You shall eat the flesh of your sons, and you shall eat the flesh of your daughters.
Leviticus 26:30 And cast your dead bodies upon the dead bodies of your idols, and my soul will abhor you.
Leviticus 26:31 And I will I will not smell your pleasing aromas.
Leviticus 26:32 And appalled at it.
Leviticus 26:33 And I will scatter you among the nations, and I will unsheathe the sword after you, and your land shall be a desolation, and your cities shall be a waste.
Leviticus 26:34   its Sabbaths as long as it lies desolate, while you are in your enemies' land; then the land shall rest, and enjoy its Sabbaths.
Leviticus 26:35 As long as it lies desolate it shall have rest, the rest that it did not have on your Sabbaths when you were dwelling in it.
Leviticus 26:36 And as for those of you who are left, driven leaf shall put them to flight, and they shall flee as one flees from the sword, and they shall fall when none pursues.
Leviticus 26:37 They shall stumble over one another, as if to escape a sword, though none pursues. And you shall have no power to stand before your enemies.
Leviticus 26:38 And you shall perish among the nations, and the land of your enemies shall eat you up.
Leviticus 26:39 And those of you who are left shall rot away in your enemies' lands because of their iniquity, and also because of the iniquities of their fathers they shall rot away like them.
Leviticus 26:40 “But if committed against me, and also in walking contrary to me,
Leviticus 26:41 so that I walked contrary to them and brought them into the land of their enemies — if then their humbled and they make amends for their iniquity,
Leviticus 26:42 then I will remember the land.
Leviticus 26:43 But the land shall be abandoned by them and enjoy its Sabbaths while it lies desolate without them, and they shall make amends for their iniquity, because they spurned my rules and their soul abhorred my statutes.
Leviticus 26:44 Yet for all that, when they are in the land of their enemies, break my covenant with them, for I am the LORD their God.
Leviticus 26:45 But I will for their sake remember the covenant with their forefathers, in the sight of the nations, that I might be their God: I am the LORD.”
Leviticus 26:46  on Mount Sinai.
Leviticus 27:1 The LORD spoke to Moses, saying,
Leviticus 27:2 “Speak to the people of Israel and say to them, If anyone makes a special vow to the LORD involving the valuation of persons,
Leviticus 27:3 then the valuation of a male from twenty years old up to sixty years old shall be fifty shekels shekel of the sanctuary.
Leviticus 27:4 If the person is a female, the valuation shall be thirty shekels.
Leviticus 27:5 If the person is from five years old up to twenty years old, the valuation shall be for a male twenty shekels, and for a female ten shekels.
Leviticus 27:6 If the person is from a month old up to five years old, the valuation shall be for a male five shekels of silver, and for a female the valuation shall be three shekels of silver.
Leviticus 27:7 And if the person is sixty years old or over, then the valuation for a male shall be fifteen shekels, and for a female ten shekels.
Leviticus 27:8 And if someone is too poor to pay the valuation, then he shall be made to stand before the priest, and the priest shall value him; the priest shall value him according to what the vower can afford.
Leviticus 27:9 “If the vow  is an animal that may be offered as an offering to the LORD, all of it that he gives to the LORD is holy.
Leviticus 27:10  He shall not exchange it or make a substitute for it, good for bad, or bad for good; and if he does in fact substitute one animal for another, then both it and the substitute shall be holy.
Leviticus 27:11 And if it is any unclean animal that may not be offered as an offering to the LORD, then he shall stand the animal before the priest,
Leviticus 27:12 and the priest shall value it as either good or bad; as the priest values it, so it shall be.
Leviticus 27:13  fifth to the valuation.
Leviticus 27:14 “When a man dedicates his house as a holy gift to the LORD, the priest shall value it as either good or bad; as the priest values it, so it shall stand.
Leviticus 27:15  fifth to the valuation price, and it shall be his.
Leviticus 27:16 “If a man dedicates to the LORD part of the land that is his possession, then the valuation shall be in proportion to its seed. A homer  of barley seed shall be valued at fifty shekels of silver.
Leviticus 27:17 If he dedicates his field from the year of jubilee, the valuation shall stand,
Leviticus 27:18 but if he dedicates his field after the jubilee, then the priest shall calculate the price according to the years that remain until the year of jubilee, and a deduction shall be made from the valuation.
Leviticus 27:19  fifth to its valuation price, and it shall remain his.
Leviticus 27:20 But if he does not wish to redeem the field, or if he has sold the field to another man, it shall not be redeemed anymore.
Leviticus 27:21 But the field, possession of it.
Leviticus 27:22 If he dedicates to the LORD a field that he has bought, which is not a part of his possession,
Leviticus 27:23  then the priest shall calculate the amount of the valuation for it up to the year of jubilee, and the man shall give the valuation on that day as a holy gift to the LORD.
Leviticus 27:24  In the year of jubilee the field shall return to him from whom it was bought, to whom the land belongs as a possession.
Leviticus 27:25 Every valuation shall be according to  shall make a shekel.
Leviticus 27:26 “But a firstborn of animals, which as a firstborn belongs to the LORD, no man may dedicate; whether ox or sheep, it is the LORD's.
Leviticus 27:27 And if it is an unclean animal, then he shall buy it back at the valuation, and add a fifth to it; or, if it is not redeemed, it shall be sold at the valuation.
Leviticus 27:28 “But no devoted thing that a man devotes to the LORD, of anything that he has, whether man or beast, or of his inherited field, shall be sold or redeemed; every devoted thing is most holy to the LORD.
Leviticus 27:29   from mankind, shall be ransomed; he shall surely be put to death.
Leviticus 27:30  “Every tithe of the land, whether of the seed of the land or of the fruit of the trees, is the LORD's; it is holy to the LORD.
Leviticus 27:31 If a man wishes to redeem some of his tithe, he shall add a fifth to it.
Leviticus 27:32 And every tithe of herds and flocks, every tenth animal of all that pass under the herdsman's staff, shall be holy to the LORD.
Leviticus 27:33 One shall not differentiate between good or bad, neither shall he make a substitute for it; and if he does substitute for it, then both it and the substitute shall be holy; it shall not be redeemed.”
Leviticus 27:34  on Mount Sinai.
Numbers 1:1 The LORD spoke to Moses in the tent of meeting, on the first day of the second month, in the second year after they had come out of the land of Egypt, saying,
Numbers 1:2  by fathers' houses, according to the number of names, every male, head by head.
Numbers 1:3  company by company.
Numbers 1:4 And there shall be with you a man from each tribe, each man being the head of the house of his fathers.
Numbers 1:5 And these are the names of the men who shall assist you. From Reuben, Elizur the son of Shedeur;
Numbers 1:6 from Simeon, Shelumiel the son of Zurishaddai;
Numbers 1:7 from Judah, Nahshon the son of Amminadab;
Numbers 1:8 from Issachar, Nethanel the son of Zuar;
Numbers 1:9 from Zebulun, Eliab the son of Helon;
Numbers 1:10 from the sons of Joseph, from Ephraim, Gamaliel the son of Pedahzur;
Numbers 1:11 from Benjamin, Abidan the son of Gideoni;
Numbers 1:12 from Dan, Ahiezer the son of Ammishaddai;
Numbers 1:13 from Asher, Pagiel the son of Ochran;
Numbers 1:14 from Gad, Eliasaph the son of Deuel;
Numbers 1:15 from Naphtali, Ahira the son of Enan.”
Numbers 1:16 These were the ones the chiefs of their ancestral tribes, the heads of the clans of Israel.
Numbers 1:17 Moses and Aaron took these men who had been named,
Numbers 1:18 and on the first day of the second month, they assembled the whole congregation together, who registered themselves by clans, by fathers' houses, according to the number of names from twenty years old and upward, head by head,
Numbers 1:19 as the LORD commanded Moses. So he listed them in the wilderness of Sinai.
Numbers 1:20 The people of Reuben, Israel's firstborn, their generations, by their clans, by their fathers' houses, according to the number of names, head by head, every male from twenty years old and upward, all who were able to go to war:
Numbers 1:21 those listed of the tribe of Reuben were 46,500.
Numbers 1:22 Of the people of Simeon, their generations, by their clans, by their fathers' houses, those of them who were listed, according to the number of names, head by head, every male from twenty years old and upward, all who were able to go to war:
Numbers 1:23 those listed of the tribe of Simeon were 59,300.
Numbers 1:24 Of the people of Gad, their generations, by their clans, by their fathers' houses, according to the number of the names, from twenty years old and upward, all who were able to go to war:
Numbers 1:25 those listed of the tribe of Gad were 45,650.
Numbers 1:26 Of the people of Judah, their generations, by their clans, by their fathers' houses, according to the number of names, from twenty years old and upward, every man able to go to war:
Numbers 1:27 those listed of the tribe of Judah were 74,600.
Numbers 1:28 Of the people of Issachar, their generations, by their clans, by their fathers' houses, according to the number of names, from twenty years old and upward, every man able to go to war:
Numbers 1:29 those listed of the tribe of Issachar were 54,400.
Numbers 1:30 Of the people of Zebulun, their generations, by their clans, by their fathers' houses, according to the number of names, from twenty years old and upward, every man able to go to war:
Numbers 1:31 those listed of the tribe of Zebulun were 57,400.
Numbers 1:32 Of the people of Joseph, namely, of the people of Ephraim, their generations, by their clans, by their fathers' houses, according to the number of names, from twenty years old and upward, every man able to go to war:
Numbers 1:33 those listed of the tribe of Ephraim were 40,500.
Numbers 1:34 Of the people of Manasseh, their generations, by their clans, by their fathers' houses, according to the number of names, from twenty years old and upward, every man able to go to war:
Numbers 1:35 those listed of the tribe of Manasseh were 32,200.
Numbers 1:36 Of the people of Benjamin, their generations, by their clans, by their fathers' houses, according to the number of names, from twenty years old and upward, every man able to go to war:
Numbers 1:37 those listed of the tribe of Benjamin were 35,400.
Numbers 1:38 Of the people of Dan, their generations, by their clans, by their fathers' houses, according to the number of names, from twenty years old and upward, every man able to go to war:
Numbers 1:39 those listed of the tribe of Dan were 62,700.
Numbers 1:40 Of the people of Asher, their generations, by their clans, by their fathers' houses, according to the number of names, from twenty years old and upward, every man able to go to war:
Numbers 1:41 those listed of the tribe of Asher were 41,500.
Numbers 1:42 Of the people of Naphtali, their generations, by their clans, by their fathers' houses, according to the number of names, from twenty years old and upward, every man able to go to war:
Numbers 1:43 those listed of the tribe of Naphtali were 53,400.
Numbers 1:44  These are those who were listed, whom Moses and Aaron listed with the help of the chiefs of Israel, twelve men, each representing his fathers' house.
Numbers 1:45 So all those listed of the people of Israel, by their fathers' houses, from twenty years old and upward, every man able to go to war in Israel —
Numbers 1:46 all those listed were 603,550.
Numbers 1:47 But the Levites were not listed along with them by their ancestral tribe.
Numbers 1:48 For the LORD spoke to Moses, saying,
Numbers 1:49 “Only the tribe of Levi you shall not list, and you shall not take a census of them among the people of Israel.
Numbers 1:50  and shall camp around the tabernacle.
Numbers 1:51  And if any outsider comes near, he shall be put to death.
Numbers 1:52 The people of Israel shall pitch their tents by their companies, each man in his own camp and each man by his own standard.
Numbers 1:53 But the Levites shall camp around the tabernacle of the testimony, so that there may be no And the Levites shall keep guard over the tabernacle of the testimony.”
Numbers 1:54 Thus did the people of Israel; they did according to all that the LORD commanded Moses.
Numbers 2:1 The LORD spoke to Moses and Aaron, saying,
Numbers 2:2  “The people of Israel shall camp each by his own standard, with the banners of their fathers' houses. They shall camp facing the tent of meeting on every side.
Numbers 2:3 Those to camp on the east side toward the sunrise shall be of the standard of the camp of Judah by their companies, the chief of the people of Judah being Nahshon the son of Amminadab,
Numbers 2:4 his company as listed being 74,600.
Numbers 2:5 Those to camp next to him shall be the tribe of Issachar, the chief of the people of Issachar being Nethanel the son of Zuar,
Numbers 2:6 his company as listed being 54,400.
Numbers 2:7 Then the tribe of Zebulun, the chief of the people of Zebulun being Eliab the son of Helon,
Numbers 2:8 his company as listed being 57,400.
Numbers 2:9 All those listed of the camp of Judah, by their companies, were 186,400. They shall set out first on the march.
Numbers 2:10 “On the south side shall be the standard of the camp of Reuben by their companies, the chief of the people of Reuben being Elizur the son of Shedeur,
Numbers 2:11 his company as listed being 46,500.
Numbers 2:12 And those to camp next to him shall be the tribe of Simeon, the chief of the people of Simeon being Shelumiel the son of Zurishaddai,
Numbers 2:13 his company as listed being 59,300.
Numbers 2:14 Then the tribe of Gad, the chief of the people of Gad being Eliasaph the son of Reuel,
Numbers 2:15 his company as listed being 45,650.
Numbers 2:16 All those listed of the camp of Reuben, by their companies, were 151,450. They shall set out second.
Numbers 2:17  “Then the tent of meeting shall set out, with the camp of the Levites in the midst of the camps; as they camp, so shall they set out, each in position, standard by standard.
Numbers 2:18 “On the west side shall be the standard of the camp of Ephraim by their companies, the chief of the people of Ephraim being Elishama the son of Ammihud,
Numbers 2:19 his company as listed being 40,500.
Numbers 2:20 And next to him shall be the tribe of Manasseh, the chief of the people of Manasseh being Gamaliel the son of Pedahzur,
Numbers 2:21 his company as listed being 32,200.
Numbers 2:22 Then the tribe of Benjamin, the chief of the people of Benjamin being Abidan the son of Gideoni,
Numbers 2:23 his company as listed being 35,400.
Numbers 2:24 All those listed of the camp of Ephraim, by their companies, were 108,100. They shall set out third on the march.
Numbers 2:25 “On the north side shall be the standard of the camp of Dan by their companies, the chief of the people of Dan being Ahiezer the son of Ammishaddai,
Numbers 2:26 his company as listed being 62,700.
Numbers 2:27 And those to camp next to him shall be the tribe of Asher, the chief of the people of Asher being Pagiel the son of Ochran,
Numbers 2:28 his company as listed being 41,500.
Numbers 2:29 Then the tribe of Naphtali, the chief of the people of Naphtali being Ahira the son of Enan,
Numbers 2:30 his company as listed being 53,400.
Numbers 2:31 All those listed of the camp of Dan were 157,600. They shall set out last, standard by standard.”
Numbers 2:32 These are the people of Israel as listed by their fathers' houses. All those listed in the camps by their companies were 603,550.
Numbers 2:33 But the Levites were not listed among the people of Israel, as the LORD commanded Moses.
Numbers 2:34 Thus did the people of Israel. According to all that the LORD commanded Moses, so they camped by their standards, and so they set out, each one in his clan, according to his fathers' house.
Numbers 3:1 These are the generations of Aaron and Moses at the time when the LORD spoke with Moses on Mount Sinai.
Numbers 3:2 These are the names of the sons of Aaron: Nadab the firstborn, and Abihu, Eleazar, and Ithamar.
Numbers 3:3 These are the names of the sons of Aaron, whom he ordained to serve as priests.
Numbers 3:4  But Nadab and Abihu died before the LORD when they offered unauthorized fire before the LORD in the wilderness of Sinai, and they had no children. So Eleazar and Ithamar served as priests in the lifetime of Aaron their father.
Numbers 3:5 And the LORD spoke to Moses, saying,
Numbers 3:6  “Bring the tribe of Levi near, and set them before Aaron the priest, that they may minister to him.
Numbers 3:7 They shall keep guard over him and over the whole congregation before the tent of meeting, as they minister at the tabernacle.
Numbers 3:8 They shall guard all the furnishings of the tent of meeting, and keep guard over the people of Israel as they minister at the tabernacle.
Numbers 3:9 And wholly given to him from among the people of Israel.
Numbers 3:10 And you shall appoint Aaron and his sons, and any outsider comes near, he shall be put to death.”
Numbers 3:11 And the LORD spoke to Moses, saying,
Numbers 3:12 “Behold, I have taken the Levites from among the people of Israel instead of every firstborn who opens the womb among the people of Israel. The Levites shall be mine,
Numbers 3:13 for On the day that I struck down all the firstborn in the land of Egypt, I consecrated for my own all the firstborn in Israel, both of man and of beast. They shall be mine: I am the LORD.”
Numbers 3:14 And the LORD spoke to Moses in the wilderness of Sinai, saying,
Numbers 3:15 “List the sons of Levi, by fathers' houses and by clans; every male from a month old and upward you shall list.”
Numbers 3:16 So Moses listed them according to the word of the LORD, as he was commanded.
Numbers 3:17  And these were the sons of Levi by their names: Gershon and Kohath and Merari.
Numbers 3:18 And these are the names of the sons of Gershon by their clans: Libni and Shimei.
Numbers 3:19 And the sons of Kohath by their clans: Amram, Izhar, Hebron, and Uzziel.
Numbers 3:20 And the sons of Merari by their clans: Mahli and Mushi. These are the clans of the Levites, by their fathers' houses.
Numbers 3:21 To Gershon belonged the clan of the Libnites and the clan of the Shimeites; these were the clans of the Gershonites.
Numbers 3:22 Their listing according to the number of all the males from a month old and upward was  7,500.
Numbers 3:23  The clans of the Gershonites were to camp behind the tabernacle on the west,
Numbers 3:24 with Eliasaph, the son of Lael as chief of the fathers' house of the Gershonites.
Numbers 3:25 And the the screen for the entrance of the tent of meeting,
Numbers 3:26  its cords — all the service connected with these.
Numbers 3:27 To Kohath belonged the clan of the Amramites and the clan of the Izharites and the clan of the Hebronites and the clan of the Uzzielites; these are the clans of the Kohathites.
Numbers 3:28 According to the number of all the males, from a month old and upward, there were 8,600, keeping guard over the sanctuary.
Numbers 3:29 The clans of the sons of Kohath were to camp on the south side of the tabernacle,
Numbers 3:30 with Elizaphan the son of Uzziel as chief of the fathers' house of the clans of the Kohathites.
Numbers 3:31 And their guard duty involved the screen; all the service connected with these.
Numbers 3:32 And Eleazar the son of Aaron the priest was to be chief over the chiefs of the Levites, and to have oversight of those who kept guard over the sanctuary.
Numbers 3:33 To Merari belonged the clan of the Mahlites and the clan of the Mushites: these are the clans of Merari.
Numbers 3:34 Their listing according to the number of all the males from a month old and upward was 6,200.
Numbers 3:35 And the chief of the fathers' house of the clans of Merari was Zuriel the son of Abihail. They were to camp on the north side of the tabernacle.
Numbers 3:36  the pillars, the bases, and all their accessories; all the service connected with these;
Numbers 3:37 also cords.
Numbers 3:38 Those who were to camp before the tabernacle on the east, before the tent of meeting toward the sunrise, were Moses and Aaron and his sons,  the people of Israel. And any outsider who came near was to be put to death.
Numbers 3:39 All those listed among the Levites, whom Moses and Aaron listed at the commandment of the LORD, by clans, all the males from a month old and upward, were 22,000.
Numbers 3:40 And the LORD said to Moses, “List all the firstborn males of the people of Israel, from a month old and upward, taking the number of their names.
Numbers 3:41  And you shall take the Levites for me — I am the LORD — instead of all the firstborn among the people of Israel, and the cattle of the Levites instead of all the firstborn among the cattle of the people of Israel.”
Numbers 3:42 So Moses listed all the firstborn among the people of Israel, as the LORD commanded him.
Numbers 3:43 And all the firstborn males, according to the number of names, from a month old and upward as listed were 22,273.
Numbers 3:44 And the LORD spoke to Moses, saying,
Numbers 3:45  “Take the Levites instead of all the firstborn among the people of Israel, and the cattle of the Levites instead of their cattle. The Levites shall be mine: I am the LORD.
Numbers 3:46 And as the redemption price for the 273 of the firstborn of the people of Israel, over and above the number of the male Levites,
Numbers 3:47 you shall take ),
Numbers 3:48 and give the money to Aaron and his sons as the redemption price for those who are over.”
Numbers 3:49 So Moses took the redemption money from those who were over and above those redeemed by the Levites.
Numbers 3:50 From the firstborn of the people of Israel he took the money, 1,365 shekels, by the shekel of the sanctuary.
Numbers 3:51 And Moses gave the redemption money to Aaron and his sons, according to the word of the LORD, as the LORD commanded Moses.
Numbers 4:1 The LORD spoke to Moses and Aaron, saying,
Numbers 4:2 “Take a census of the sons of Kohath from among the sons of Levi, by their clans and their fathers' houses,
Numbers 4:3  from thirty years old up to fifty years old, all who can come on duty, to do the work in the tent of meeting.
Numbers 4:4 This is the service of the sons of Kohath in the tent of meeting: the most holy things.
Numbers 4:5 When the camp is to set out, Aaron and his sons shall go in and take down the ark of the testimony with it.
Numbers 4:6 Then they shall put on it a covering of goatskin poles.
Numbers 4:7 And over the the regular showbread also shall be on it.
Numbers 4:8 Then they shall spread over them a cloth of scarlet and cover the same with a covering of goatskin, and shall put in its poles.
Numbers 4:9 And they shall take a cloth of blue and cover the lampstand for the light, with its lamps, its tongs, its trays, and all the vessels for oil with which it is supplied.
Numbers 4:10 And they shall put it with all its utensils in a covering of goatskin and put it on the carrying frame.
Numbers 4:11 And over the golden altar they shall spread a cloth of blue and cover it with a covering of goatskin, and shall put in its poles.
Numbers 4:12 And they shall take all the vessels of the service that are used in the sanctuary and put them in a cloth of blue and cover them with a covering of goatskin and put them on the carrying frame.
Numbers 4:13 And they shall take away the ashes from the altar and spread a purple cloth over it.
Numbers 4:14 And they shall put on it all the utensils of the altar, which are used for the service there, the fire pans, the forks, the shovels, and the basins, all the utensils of the altar; and they shall spread on it a covering of goatskin, and shall put in its poles.
Numbers 4:15 And when Aaron and his sons have finished covering the sanctuary and all the furnishings of the sanctuary, as the camp sets out, after that but they must not touch the holy things, lest they die. These are the things of the tent of meeting that the sons of Kohath are to carry.
Numbers 4:16 “And Eleazar the son of Aaron the priest shall have charge of the anointing oil, with the oversight of the whole tabernacle and all that is in it, of the sanctuary and its vessels.”
Numbers 4:17 The LORD spoke to Moses and Aaron, saying,
Numbers 4:18 “Let not the tribe of the clans of the Kohathites be destroyed from among the Levites,
Numbers 4:19 but deal thus with them, that they may live and not die when they come near to the most holy things: Aaron and his sons shall go in and appoint them each to his task and to his burden,
Numbers 4:20  but they shall not go in to look on the holy things even for a moment, lest they die.”
Numbers 4:21 The LORD spoke to Moses, saying,
Numbers 4:22 “Take a census of the sons of Gershon also, by their fathers' houses and by their clans.
Numbers 4:23  come to do duty, to do service in the tent of meeting.
Numbers 4:24 This is the service of the clans of the Gershonites, in serving and bearing burdens:
Numbers 4:25  its covering and the covering of goatskin that is on top of it and the screen for the entrance of the tent of meeting
Numbers 4:26 and the hangings of the court and the screen for the entrance of the gate of the court that is around the tabernacle and the altar, and their cords and all the equipment for their service. And they shall do all that needs to be done with regard to them.
Numbers 4:27 All the service of the sons of the Gershonites shall be at the command of Aaron and his sons, in all that they are to carry and in all that they have to do. And you shall assign to their charge all that they are to carry.
Numbers 4:28 This is the service of the clans of the sons of the Gershonites in the tent of meeting, and their guard duty is to be under the direction of Ithamar the son of Aaron the priest.
Numbers 4:29 “As for the sons of Merari, you shall list them by their clans and their fathers' houses.
Numbers 4:30  From thirty years old up to fifty years old, you shall list them, everyone who can come on duty, to do the service of the tent of meeting.
Numbers 4:31 And this is what they are charged to carry, as the whole of their service in the tent of meeting: the frames of the tabernacle, with its bars, pillars, and bases,
Numbers 4:32 and the pillars around the court with their bases, pegs, and cords, with all their equipment and all their accessories. And you shall list by name the objects that they are required to carry.
Numbers 4:33 This is the service of the clans of the sons of Merari, the whole of their service in the tent of meeting, under the direction of Ithamar the son of Aaron the priest.”
Numbers 4:34 And Moses and Aaron and the chiefs of the congregation listed the sons of the Kohathites, by their clans and their fathers' houses,
Numbers 4:35  from thirty years old up to fifty years old, everyone who could come on duty, for service in the tent of meeting;
Numbers 4:36 and those listed by clans were 2,750.
Numbers 4:37  This was the list of the clans of the Kohathites, all who served in the tent of meeting, whom Moses and Aaron listed according to the commandment of the LORD by Moses.
Numbers 4:38 Those listed of the sons of Gershon, by their clans and their fathers' houses,
Numbers 4:39  from thirty years old up to fifty years old, everyone who could come on duty for service in the tent of meeting —
Numbers 4:40 those listed by their clans and their fathers' houses were 2,630.
Numbers 4:41  This was the list of the clans of the sons of Gershon, all who served in the tent of meeting, whom Moses and Aaron listed according to the commandment of the LORD.
Numbers 4:42 Those listed of the clans of the sons of Merari, by their clans and their fathers' houses,
Numbers 4:43  from thirty years old up to fifty years old, everyone who could come on duty, for service in the tent of meeting —
Numbers 4:44 those listed by clans were 3,200.
Numbers 4:45  This was the list of the clans of the sons of Merari, whom Moses and Aaron listed according to the commandment of the LORD by Moses.
Numbers 4:46 All those who were listed of the Levites, whom Moses and Aaron and the chiefs of Israel listed, by their clans and their fathers' houses,
Numbers 4:47  from thirty years old up to fifty years old, everyone who could come to do the service of ministry and the service of bearing burdens in the tent of meeting,
Numbers 4:48 those listed were 8,580.
Numbers 4:49 According to the commandment of the LORD through Moses they were listed, as the LORD commanded Moses.
Numbers 5:1 The LORD spoke to Moses, saying,
Numbers 5:2 “Command the people of Israel that they unclean through contact with the dead.
Numbers 5:3 You shall put out both male and female, putting them outside the camp, that they may not defile their camp, in the midst of which I dwell.”
Numbers 5:4 And the people of Israel did so, and put them outside the camp; as the LORD said to Moses, so the people of Israel did.
Numbers 5:5 And the LORD spoke to Moses, saying,
Numbers 5:6 “Speak to the people of Israel, When a man or woman commits any of the sins that people commit by breaking faith with the LORD, and that person realizes his guilt,
Numbers 5:7  And he shall make full restitution for his wrong, adding a fifth to it and giving it to him to whom he did the wrong.
Numbers 5:8 But if the man has no next of kin to whom restitution may be made for the wrong, the restitution for wrong shall go to the LORD for the priest, in addition to the ram of atonement with which atonement is made for him.
Numbers 5:9 And every contribution, all the holy donations of the people of Israel, which they bring to the priest, shall be his.
Numbers 5:10 Each one shall keep his holy donations: whatever anyone gives to the priest shall be his.”
Numbers 5:11 And the LORD spoke to Moses, saying,
Numbers 5:12 “Speak to the people of Israel, If any man's wife goes astray and breaks faith with him,
Numbers 5:13 if a man since she was not taken in the act,
Numbers 5:14 and if the spirit of jealousy comes over him and he is jealous of his wife who has defiled herself, or if the spirit of jealousy comes over him and he is jealous of his wife, though she has not defiled herself,
Numbers 5:15 then the man shall bring his wife to the priest and bring the offering required of her, a tenth of an ephah bringing iniquity to remembrance.
Numbers 5:16 “And the priest shall bring her near and set her before the LORD.
Numbers 5:17 And the priest shall take holy water in an earthenware vessel and take some of the dust that is on the floor of the tabernacle and put it into the water.
Numbers 5:18 And the priest shall set the woman before the LORD and unbind the hair of the woman's head and place in her hands the grain offering of remembrance, which is the grain offering of jealousy. And in his hand the priest shall have the water of bitterness that brings the curse.
Numbers 5:19 Then the priest shall make her take an oath, saying, ‘If no man has lain with you, and if you have not turned aside to uncleanness while you were under your husband's authority, be free from this water of bitterness that brings the curse.
Numbers 5:20 But if you have gone astray, though you are under your husband's authority, and if you have defiled yourself, and some man other than your husband has lain with you,
Numbers 5:21 then’ (let the priest make the woman take the oath of the curse, and say to the woman) ‘the LORD make you a curse and an oath among your people, when the LORD makes your thigh fall away and your body swell.
Numbers 5:22 May this water that brings the curse ‘Amen, Amen.’
Numbers 5:23 “Then the priest shall write these curses in a book and wash them off into the water of bitterness.
Numbers 5:24 And he shall make the woman drink the water of bitterness that brings the curse, and the water that brings the curse shall enter into her and cause bitter pain.
Numbers 5:25 And the priest shall take the grain offering of jealousy out of the woman's hand and shall wave the grain offering before the LORD and bring it to the altar.
Numbers 5:26 And the priest shall take a handful of the grain offering, as its memorial portion, and burn it on the altar, and afterward shall make the woman drink the water.
Numbers 5:27 And when he has made her drink the water, then, if she has defiled herself and has broken faith with her husband, the water that brings the curse shall enter into her and cause bitter pain, and her womb shall swell, and her thigh shall fall away, and the woman shall become a curse among her people.
Numbers 5:28 But if the woman has not defiled herself and is clean, then she shall be free and shall conceive children.
Numbers 5:29 “This is the law in cases of jealousy, when a wife, though under her husband's authority, goes astray and defiles herself,
Numbers 5:30 or when the spirit of jealousy comes over a man and he is jealous of his wife. Then he shall set the woman before the LORD, and the priest shall carry out for her all this law.
Numbers 5:31 The man shall be free from iniquity, but the woman shall bear her iniquity.”
Numbers 6:1 And the LORD spoke to Moses, saying,
Numbers 6:2 “Speak to the people of Israel and say to them, When either a man or a woman makes a special vow, the vow of to separate himself to the LORD,
Numbers 6:3 he shall separate himself from wine and strong drink. He shall drink no vinegar made from wine or strong drink and shall not drink any juice of grapes or eat grapes, fresh or dried.
Numbers 6:4 All the days of his separation  he shall eat nothing that is produced by the grapevine, not even the seeds or the skins.
Numbers 6:5 “All the days of his vow of separation, no He shall let the locks of hair of his head grow long.
Numbers 6:6 “All the days that he separates himself to the LORD he shall not go near a dead body.
Numbers 6:7  Not even for his father or for his mother, for brother or sister, if they die, shall he make himself unclean, because his separation to God is on his head.
Numbers 6:8 All the days of his separation he is holy to the LORD.
Numbers 6:9 “And if any man dies very suddenly beside him and he defiles his consecrated head, then he shall shave his head on the day of his cleansing; on the seventh day he shall shave it.
Numbers 6:10  On the eighth day he shall bring two turtledoves or two pigeons to the priest to the entrance of the tent of meeting,
Numbers 6:11 and the priest shall offer one for a sin offering and the other for a burnt offering, and make atonement for him, because he sinned by reason of the dead body. And he shall consecrate his head that same day
Numbers 6:12 and separate himself to the LORD for the days of his separation and bring a male lamb a year old for a guilt offering. But the previous period shall be void, because his separation was defiled.
Numbers 6:13 “And this is the law for the Nazirite, when the time of his separation has been completed: he shall be brought to the entrance of the tent of meeting,
Numbers 6:14 and he shall bring his gift to the LORD, one male lamb a year old without blemish for a burnt offering, and one ewe lamb a year old without blemish as a peace offering,
Numbers 6:15 and a basket of unleavened bread, drink offerings.
Numbers 6:16 And the priest shall bring them before the LORD and offer his sin offering and his burnt offering,
Numbers 6:17 and he shall offer the ram as a sacrifice of peace offering to the LORD, with the basket of unleavened bread. The priest shall offer also its grain offering and its drink offering.
Numbers 6:18 And the Nazirite shall shave his consecrated head at the entrance of the tent of meeting and shall take the hair from his consecrated head and put it on the fire that is under the sacrifice of the peace offering.
Numbers 6:19 And the priest shall take the shall put them on the hands of the Nazirite, after he has shaved the hair of his consecration,
Numbers 6:20 and the priest shall wave them for a wave offering before the LORD. They are a holy portion for the priest, together with the breast that is waved and the thigh that is contributed. And after that the Nazirite may drink wine.
Numbers 6:21 “This is the law of the Nazirite. But if he vows an offering to the LORD above his Nazirite vow, as he can afford, in exact accordance with the vow that he takes, then he shall do in addition to the law of the Nazirite.”
Numbers 6:22 The LORD spoke to Moses, saying,
Numbers 6:23 “Speak to Aaron and his sons, saying, Thus you shall bless the people of Israel: you shall say to them,
Numbers 6:24 The LORD keep you;
Numbers 6:25 the LORD make his face to shine upon you and be gracious to you;
Numbers 6:26 the LORD  upon you and give you peace.
Numbers 6:27  “So shall they put my name upon the people of Israel, and I will bless them.”
Numbers 7:1 On the day when Moses had finished consecrated it with all its furnishings and had anointed and consecrated the altar with all its utensils,
Numbers 7:2  the chiefs of Israel, heads of their fathers' houses, who were the chiefs of the tribes, who were over those who were listed, approached
Numbers 7:3 and brought their offerings before the LORD, six wagons and twelve oxen, a wagon for every two of the chiefs, and for each one an ox. They brought them before the tabernacle.
Numbers 7:4 Then the LORD said to Moses,
Numbers 7:5 “Accept these from them, that they may be used in the service of the tent of meeting, and give them to the Levites, to each man according to his service.”
Numbers 7:6 So Moses took the wagons and the oxen and gave them to the Levites.
Numbers 7:7 Two wagons and four oxen he gave to the sons of Gershon, according to their service.
Numbers 7:8 And four wagons and eight oxen he gave to the sons of Merari, according to their service, under the direction of Ithamar the son of Aaron the priest.
Numbers 7:9 But to the sons of Kohath he gave none, because they were charged with had to be carried on the shoulder.
Numbers 7:10 And the chiefs offered offerings for the dedication of the altar on the day it was anointed; and the chiefs offered their offering before the altar.
Numbers 7:11 And the LORD said to Moses, “They shall offer their offerings, one chief each day, for the dedication of the altar.”
Numbers 7:12 He who offered his offering the first day was Nahshon the son of Amminadab, of the tribe of Judah.
Numbers 7:13 And his offering was one silver plate whose weight was 130 shekels, grain offering;
Numbers 7:14 one golden dish of 10 shekels, full of incense;
Numbers 7:15  one bull from the herd, one ram, one male lamb a year old, for a burnt offering;
Numbers 7:16 one male goat for a sin offering;
Numbers 7:17 and for the sacrifice of peace offerings, two oxen, five rams, five male goats, and five male lambs a year old. This was the offering of Nahshon the son of Amminadab.
Numbers 7:18 On the second day Nethanel the son of Zuar, the chief of Issachar, made an offering.
Numbers 7:19 He offered for his offering one silver plate whose weight was 130 shekels, one silver basin of 70 shekels, according to the shekel of the sanctuary, both of them full of fine flour mixed with oil for a grain offering;
Numbers 7:20 one golden dish of 10 shekels, full of incense;
Numbers 7:21 one bull from the herd, one ram, one male lamb a year old, for a burnt offering;
Numbers 7:22 one male goat for a sin offering;
Numbers 7:23 and for the sacrifice of peace offerings, two oxen, five rams, five male goats, and five male lambs a year old. This was the offering of Nethanel the son of Zuar.
Numbers 7:24 On the third day Eliab the son of Helon, the chief of the people of Zebulun:
Numbers 7:25 his offering was one silver plate whose weight was 130 shekels, one silver basin of 70 shekels, according to the shekel of the sanctuary, both of them full of fine flour mixed with oil for a grain offering;
Numbers 7:26 one golden dish of 10 shekels, full of incense;
Numbers 7:27 one bull from the herd, one ram, one male lamb a year old, for a burnt offering;
Numbers 7:28 one male goat for a sin offering;
Numbers 7:29 and for the sacrifice of peace offerings, two oxen, five rams, five male goats, and five male lambs a year old. This was the offering of Eliab the son of Helon.
Numbers 7:30 On the fourth day Elizur the son of Shedeur, the chief of the people of Reuben:
Numbers 7:31 his offering was one silver plate whose weight was 130 shekels, one silver basin of 70 shekels, according to the shekel of the sanctuary, both of them full of fine flour mixed with oil for a grain offering;
Numbers 7:32 one golden dish of 10 shekels, full of incense;
Numbers 7:33 one bull from the herd, one ram, one male lamb a year old, for a burnt offering;
Numbers 7:34 one male goat for a sin offering;
Numbers 7:35 and for the sacrifice of peace offerings, two oxen, five rams, five male goats, and five male lambs a year old. This was the offering of Elizur the son of Shedeur.
Numbers 7:36 On the fifth day Shelumiel the son of Zurishaddai, the chief of the people of Simeon:
Numbers 7:37 his offering was one silver plate whose weight was 130 shekels, one silver basin of 70 shekels, according to the shekel of the sanctuary, both of them full of fine flour mixed with oil for a grain offering;
Numbers 7:38 one golden dish of 10 shekels, full of incense;
Numbers 7:39 one bull from the herd, one ram, one male lamb a year old, for a burnt offering;
Numbers 7:40 one male goat for a sin offering;
Numbers 7:41 and for the sacrifice of peace offerings, two oxen, five rams, five male goats, and five male lambs a year old. This was the offering of Shelumiel the son of Zurishaddai.
Numbers 7:42 On the sixth day Eliasaph the son of Deuel, the chief of the people of Gad:
Numbers 7:43 his offering was one silver plate whose weight was 130 shekels, one silver basin of 70 shekels, according to the shekel of the sanctuary, both of them full of fine flour mixed with oil for a grain offering;
Numbers 7:44 one golden dish of 10 shekels, full of incense;
Numbers 7:45 one bull from the herd, one ram, one male lamb a year old, for a burnt offering;
Numbers 7:46 one male goat for a sin offering;
Numbers 7:47 and for the sacrifice of peace offerings, two oxen, five rams, five male goats, and five male lambs a year old. This was the offering of Eliasaph the son of Deuel.
Numbers 7:48 On the seventh day Elishama the son of Ammihud, the chief of the people of Ephraim:
Numbers 7:49 his offering was one silver plate whose weight was 130 shekels, one silver basin of 70 shekels, according to the shekel of the sanctuary, both of them full of fine flour mixed with oil for a grain offering;
Numbers 7:50 one golden dish of 10 shekels, full of incense;
Numbers 7:51 one bull from the herd, one ram, one male lamb a year old, for a burnt offering;
Numbers 7:52 one male goat for a sin offering;
Numbers 7:53 and for the sacrifice of peace offerings, two oxen, five rams, five male goats, and five male lambs a year old. This was the offering of Elishama the son of Ammihud.
Numbers 7:54 On the eighth day Gamaliel the son of Pedahzur, the chief of the people of Manasseh:
Numbers 7:55 his offering was one silver plate whose weight was 130 shekels, one silver basin of 70 shekels, according to the shekel of the sanctuary, both of them full of fine flour mixed with oil for a grain offering;
Numbers 7:56 one golden dish of 10 shekels, full of incense;
Numbers 7:57 one bull from the herd, one ram, one male lamb a year old, for a burnt offering;
Numbers 7:58 one male goat for a sin offering;
Numbers 7:59 and for the sacrifice of peace offerings, two oxen, five rams, five male goats, and five male lambs a year old. This was the offering of Gamaliel the son of Pedahzur.
Numbers 7:60 On the ninth day Abidan the son of Gideoni, the chief of the people of Benjamin:
Numbers 7:61 his offering was one silver plate whose weight was 130 shekels, one silver basin of 70 shekels, according to the shekel of the sanctuary, both of them full of fine flour mixed with oil for a grain offering;
Numbers 7:62 one golden dish of 10 shekels, full of incense;
Numbers 7:63 one bull from the herd, one ram, one male lamb a year old, for a burnt offering;
Numbers 7:64 one male goat for a sin offering;
Numbers 7:65 and for the sacrifice of peace offerings, two oxen, five rams, five male goats, and five male lambs a year old. This was the offering of Abidan the son of Gideoni.
Numbers 7:66 On the tenth day Ahiezer the son of Ammishaddai, the chief of the people of Dan:
Numbers 7:67 his offering was one silver plate whose weight was 130 shekels, one silver basin of 70 shekels, according to the shekel of the sanctuary, both of them full of fine flour mixed with oil for a grain offering;
Numbers 7:68 one golden dish of 10 shekels, full of incense;
Numbers 7:69 one bull from the herd, one ram, one male lamb a year old, for a burnt offering;
Numbers 7:70 one male goat for a sin offering;
Numbers 7:71 and for the sacrifice of peace offerings, two oxen, five rams, five male goats, and five male lambs a year old. This was the offering of Ahiezer the son of Ammishaddai.
Numbers 7:72 On the eleventh day Pagiel the son of Ochran, the chief of the people of Asher:
Numbers 7:73 his offering was one silver plate whose weight was 130 shekels, one silver basin of 70 shekels, according to the shekel of the sanctuary, both of them full of fine flour mixed with oil for a grain offering;
Numbers 7:74 one golden dish of 10 shekels, full of incense;
Numbers 7:75 one bull from the herd, one ram, one male lamb a year old, for a burnt offering;
Numbers 7:76 one male goat for a sin offering;
Numbers 7:77 and for the sacrifice of peace offerings, two oxen, five rams, five male goats, and five male lambs a year old. This was the offering of Pagiel the son of Ochran.
Numbers 7:78 On the twelfth day Ahira the son of Enan, the chief of the people of Naphtali:
Numbers 7:79 his offering was one silver plate whose weight was 130 shekels, one silver basin of 70 shekels, according to the shekel of the sanctuary, both of them full of fine flour mixed with oil for a grain offering;
Numbers 7:80 one golden dish of 10 shekels, full of incense;
Numbers 7:81 one bull from the herd, one ram, one male lamb a year old, for a burnt offering;
Numbers 7:82 one male goat for a sin offering;
Numbers 7:83 and for the sacrifice of peace offerings, two oxen, five rams, five male goats, and five male lambs a year old. This was the offering of Ahira the son of Enan.
Numbers 7:84 This was the dedication offering for the altar on the day when it was anointed, from the chiefs of Israel: twelve silver plates, twelve silver basins, twelve golden dishes,
Numbers 7:85 each silver plate weighing 130 shekels and each basin 70, all the silver of the vessels 2,400 shekels according to the shekel of the sanctuary,
Numbers 7:86 the twelve golden dishes, full of incense, weighing 10 shekels apiece according to the shekel of the sanctuary, all the gold of the dishes being 120 shekels;
Numbers 7:87 all the cattle for the burnt offering twelve bulls, twelve rams, twelve male lambs a year old, with their grain offering; and twelve male goats for a sin offering;
Numbers 7:88 and all the cattle for the sacrifice of peace offerings twenty-four bulls, the rams sixty, the male goats sixty, the male lambs a year old sixty. This was the dedication offering for the altar after it was anointed.
Numbers 7:89 And when Moses went into the tent of meeting the voice speaking to him from above the mercy seat that was on the ark of the testimony, from between the two cherubim; and it spoke to him.
Numbers 8:1 Now the LORD spoke to Moses, saying,
Numbers 8:2 “Speak to Aaron and say to him, When you set up the lamps, the seven lamps shall give light in front of the lampstand.”
Numbers 8:3 And Aaron did so: he set up its lamps in front of the lampstand, as the LORD commanded Moses.
Numbers 8:4 And this was the workmanship of the lampstand, hammered work of gold. From its base to its flowers, it was hammered work; according to the pattern that the LORD had shown Moses, so he made the lampstand.
Numbers 8:5 And the LORD spoke to Moses, saying,
Numbers 8:6 “Take the Levites from among the people of Israel and cleanse them.
Numbers 8:7 Thus you shall do to them to cleanse them: sprinkle the let them go with a razor over all their body, and wash their clothes and cleanse themselves.
Numbers 8:8 Then let them take a bull from the herd and and you shall take another bull from the herd for a sin offering.
Numbers 8:9  and assemble the whole congregation of the people of Israel.
Numbers 8:10 When you bring the Levites before the LORD, the people of Israel shall lay their hands on the Levites,
Numbers 8:11 and Aaron shall offer the Levites before the LORD as a wave offering from the people of Israel, that they may do the service of the LORD.
Numbers 8:12 Then the Levites the one for a sin offering and the other for a burnt offering to the LORD to make atonement for the Levites.
Numbers 8:13 And you shall set the Levites before Aaron and his sons, and shall offer them as a wave offering to the LORD.
Numbers 8:14 “Thus you shall separate the Levites from among the people of Israel, and the Levites shall be mine.
Numbers 8:15 And after that the Levites shall go in to serve at the tent of meeting, when you have cleansed them and offered them as a wave offering.
Numbers 8:16 For they are Instead of all who open the womb, the firstborn of all the people of Israel, I have taken them for myself.
Numbers 8:17  For all the firstborn among the people of Israel are mine, both of man and of beast. On the day that I struck down all the firstborn in the land of Egypt I consecrated them for myself,
Numbers 8:18 and I have taken the Levites instead of all the firstborn among the people of Israel.
Numbers 8:19  that there may be no plague among the people of Israel when the people of Israel come near the sanctuary.”
Numbers 8:20 Thus did Moses and Aaron and all the congregation of the people of Israel to the Levites. According to all that the LORD commanded Moses concerning the Levites, the people of Israel did to them.
Numbers 8:21 And Aaron offered them as a wave offering before the LORD, and Aaron made atonement for them to cleanse them.
Numbers 8:22 And after that the Levites went in to do their service in the tent of meeting before Aaron and his sons; as the LORD had commanded Moses concerning the Levites, so they did to them.
Numbers 8:23 And the LORD spoke to Moses, saying,
Numbers 8:24 “This applies to the Levites:  shall come to do duty in the service of the tent of meeting.
Numbers 8:25 And from the age of fifty years they shall withdraw from the duty of the service and serve no more.
Numbers 8:26 They minister by keeping guard, but they shall do no service. Thus shall you do to the Levites in assigning their duties.”
Numbers 9:1 And the LORD spoke to Moses in the wilderness of Sinai, in the first month of the second year after they had come out of the land of Egypt, saying,
Numbers 9:2 “Let the people of Israel keep the Passover at its appointed time.
Numbers 9:3  On the fourteenth day of this month, at twilight, you shall keep it at its appointed time; according to all its statutes and all its rules you shall keep it.”
Numbers 9:4 So Moses told the people of Israel that they should keep the Passover.
Numbers 9:5 And they kept the Passover in the first month, on the fourteenth day of the month, at twilight, in the wilderness of Sinai; according to all that the LORD commanded Moses, so the people of Israel did.
Numbers 9:6 And there were certain men who were they came before Moses and Aaron on that day.
Numbers 9:7 And those men said to him, “We are unclean through touching a dead body. Why are we kept from bringing the LORD's offering at its appointed time among the people of Israel?”
Numbers 9:8 And Moses said to them, “Wait, that I may hear what the LORD will command concerning you.”
Numbers 9:9 The LORD spoke to Moses, saying,
Numbers 9:10 “Speak to the people of Israel, saying, If any one of you or of your descendants is unclean through touching a dead body, or is on a long journey, he shall still keep the Passover to the LORD.
Numbers 9:11  They shall eat it with unleavened bread and bitter herbs.
Numbers 9:12  according to all the statute for the Passover they shall keep it.
Numbers 9:13 But if anyone who is clean and is not on a journey fails to keep the Passover, offering at its appointed time; that man shall bear his sin.
Numbers 9:14 And if a stranger sojourns among you and would keep the Passover to the LORD, according to the statute of the Passover and according to its rule, so shall he do. You shall have one statute, both for the sojourner and for the native.”
Numbers 9:15  at evening it was over the tabernacle like the appearance of fire until morning.
Numbers 9:16 So it was always: the cloud covered it by day  and the appearance of fire by night.
Numbers 9:17 And whenever the cloud lifted from over the tent, after that the people of Israel set out, and in the place where the cloud settled down, there the people of Israel camped.
Numbers 9:18 At the command of the LORD the people of Israel set out, and at the command of the LORD they camped. As long as the cloud rested over the tabernacle, they remained in camp.
Numbers 9:19 Even when the cloud continued over the tabernacle many days, the people of Israel kept the charge of the LORD and did not set out.
Numbers 9:20 Sometimes the cloud was a few days over the tabernacle, and according to the command of the LORD they remained in camp; then according to the command of the LORD they set out.
Numbers 9:21 And sometimes the cloud remained from evening until morning. And when the cloud lifted in the morning, they set out, or if it continued for a day and a night, when the cloud lifted they set out.
Numbers 9:22 Whether it was two days, or a month, or a longer time, that the cloud continued over the tabernacle, abiding there, the people of Israel remained in camp and did not set out, but when it lifted they set out.
Numbers 9:23 At the command of the LORD they camped, and at the command of the LORD they set out. They kept the charge of the LORD, at the command of the LORD by Moses.
Numbers 10:1 The LORD spoke to Moses, saying,
Numbers 10:2 “Make two silver trumpets. Of hammered work you shall make them, and you shall use them for summoning the congregation and for breaking camp.
Numbers 10:3 And when both are blown, all the congregation shall gather themselves to you at the entrance of the tent of meeting.
Numbers 10:4 But if they blow only one, then the chiefs, the heads of the tribes of Israel, shall gather themselves to you.
Numbers 10:5 When you blow an alarm, the camps that are on the east side shall set out.
Numbers 10:6 And when you blow an alarm the second time, the camps that are on the south side shall set out. An alarm is to be blown whenever they are to set out.
Numbers 10:7 But when the assembly is to be gathered together, sound an alarm.
Numbers 10:8  And the sons of Aaron, the priests, shall blow the trumpets. The trumpets shall be to you for a perpetual statute throughout your generations.
Numbers 10:9 And remembered before the LORD your God, and you shall be saved from your enemies.
Numbers 10:10  a reminder of you before your God: I am the LORD your God.”
Numbers 10:11 In the second year, in the second month, on the twentieth day of the month, the cloud lifted from over the tabernacle of the testimony,
Numbers 10:12 and the people of Israel wilderness of Paran.
Numbers 10:13 They set out for the first time at the command of the LORD by Moses.
Numbers 10:14 The standard of the camp of the people of Judah set out Nahshon the son of Amminadab.
Numbers 10:15 And over the company of the tribe of the people of Issachar was Nethanel the son of Zuar.
Numbers 10:16 And over the company of the tribe of the people of Zebulun was Eliab the son of Helon.
Numbers 10:17 And when who carried the tabernacle, set out.
Numbers 10:18 And Elizur the son of Shedeur.
Numbers 10:19 And over the company of the tribe of the people of Simeon was Shelumiel the son of Zurishaddai.
Numbers 10:20 And over the company of the tribe of the people of Gad was Deuel.
Numbers 10:21 Then the Kohathites set out, the tabernacle was set up before their arrival.
Numbers 10:22 And Elishama the son of Ammihud.
Numbers 10:23 And over the company of the tribe of the people of Manasseh was Gamaliel the son of Pedahzur.
Numbers 10:24 And over the company of the tribe of the people of Benjamin was Abidan the son of Gideoni.
Numbers 10:25 Then Ahiezer the son of Ammishaddai.
Numbers 10:26 And over the company of the tribe of the people of Asher was Pagiel the son of Ochran.
Numbers 10:27 And over the company of the tribe of the people of Naphtali was Ahira the son of Enan.
Numbers 10:28  This was the order of march of the people of Israel by their companies, when they set out.
Numbers 10:29 And Moses said to Hobab the son of the LORD has promised good to Israel.”
Numbers 10:30 But he said to him, “I will not go. I will depart to my own land and to my kindred.”
Numbers 10:31 And he said, “Please do not leave us, for you know where we should camp in the wilderness, and you will serve as eyes for us.
Numbers 10:32 And if you do go with us, whatever good the LORD will do to us, the same will we do to you.”
Numbers 10:33 So they set out from a resting place for them.
Numbers 10:34  And the cloud of the LORD was over them by day, whenever they set out from the camp.
Numbers 10:35 And whenever the ark set out, Moses said, “Arise, O LORD, and let your enemies be scattered, and let those who hate you flee before you.”
Numbers 10:36 And when it rested, he said, “Return, O LORD, to the ten thousand thousands of Israel.”
Numbers 11:1 And the fire of the LORD burned among them and consumed some outlying parts of the camp.
Numbers 11:2 Then and Moses prayed to the LORD, and the fire died down.
Numbers 11:3 So the name of that place was called  because the fire of the LORD burned among them.
Numbers 11:4 Now the “Oh that we had meat to eat!
Numbers 11:5  We remember the fish we ate in Egypt that cost nothing, the cucumbers, the melons, the leeks, the onions, and the garlic.
Numbers 11:6 But now our strength is dried up, and there is nothing at all but this manna to look at.”
Numbers 11:7 Now the manna was like coriander seed, and its appearance like that of bdellium.
Numbers 11:8  And the taste of it was like the taste of cakes baked with oil.
Numbers 11:9  When the dew fell upon the camp in the night, the manna fell with it.
Numbers 11:10 Moses heard the people weeping throughout their clans, everyone at the door of his tent. And the anger of the LORD blazed hotly, and Moses was displeased.
Numbers 11:11  Moses said to the LORD, “Why have you dealt ill with your servant? And why have I not found favor in your sight, that you lay the burden of all this people on me?
Numbers 11:12 Did I conceive all this people? Did I give them birth, that you should say to me, that you swore to give their fathers?
Numbers 11:13  Where am I to get meat to give to all this people? For they weep before me and say, ‘Give us meat, that we may eat.’
Numbers 11:14  I am not able to carry all this people alone; the burden is too heavy for me.
Numbers 11:15 If you will treat me like this, kill me at once, if I find favor in your sight, that I may not see my wretchedness.”
Numbers 11:16 Then the LORD said to Moses, “Gather for me officers over them, and bring them to the tent of meeting, and let them take their stand there with you.
Numbers 11:17  they shall bear the burden of the people with you, so that you may not bear it yourself alone.
Numbers 11:18 And say to the people, For it was better for us in Egypt.” Therefore the LORD will give you meat, and you shall eat.
Numbers 11:19 You shall not eat just one day, or two days, or five days, or ten days, or twenty days,
Numbers 11:20 but a whole month, “Why did we come out of Egypt?”’”
Numbers 11:21 But Moses said, “The people among whom I am number six hundred thousand on foot, and you have said, ‘I will give them meat, that they may eat a whole month!’
Numbers 11:22  Shall flocks and herds be slaughtered for them, and be enough for them? Or shall all the fish of the sea be gathered together for them, and be enough for them?”
Numbers 11:23 And the LORD said to Moses, my word will come true for you or not.”
Numbers 11:24 So Moses went out and told the people the words of the LORD. And he gathered seventy men of the elders of the people and placed them around the tent.
Numbers 11:25 Then the LORD came down in the cloud and spoke to him, and took some of the Spirit that was on him and put it on the seventy elders. And as soon as the Spirit rested on them, they prophesied. But they did not continue doing it.
Numbers 11:26 Now two men remained in the camp, one named Eldad, and the other named Medad, and the Spirit rested on them. They were among those registered, but they had not gone out to the tent, and so they prophesied in the camp.
Numbers 11:27 And a young man ran and told Moses, “Eldad and Medad are prophesying in the camp.”
Numbers 11:28 And stop them.”
Numbers 11:29 But Moses said to him, “Are you jealous for my sake? Would that all the LORD's people were prophets, that the LORD would put his Spirit on them!”
Numbers 11:30 And Moses and the elders of Israel returned to the camp.
Numbers 11:31 Then a  above the ground.
Numbers 11:32 And the people rose all that day and all night and all the next day, and gathered the quail. Those who gathered least gathered ten  And they spread them out for themselves all around the camp.
Numbers 11:33  the LORD struck down the people with a very great plague.
Numbers 11:34 Therefore the name of that place was called  because there they buried the people who had the craving.
Numbers 11:35  Hazeroth.
Numbers 12:1 Miriam and Aaron spoke against Moses because of the Cushite woman whom he had married, for he had married a Cushite woman.
Numbers 12:2 And they said, “Has the LORD indeed spoken only through Moses? the LORD heard it.
Numbers 12:3 Now the man Moses was very meek, more than all people who were on the face of the earth.
Numbers 12:4 And suddenly the LORD said to Moses and to Aaron and Miriam, “Come out, you three, to the tent of meeting.” And the three of them came out.
Numbers 12:5 And the LORD came down in a pillar of cloud and stood at the entrance of the tent and called Aaron and Miriam, and they both came forward.
Numbers 12:6 And he said, “Hear my words: If there is a prophet among you, I the LORD make myself known to him in a dream.
Numbers 12:7 Not so with He is faithful in all my house.
Numbers 12:8 With him I speak the form of the LORD. Why then were you not afraid to speak against my servant Moses?”
Numbers 12:9 And the anger of the LORD was kindled against them, and he departed.
Numbers 12:10 When the cloud removed from over the tent, behold,  like snow. And Aaron turned toward Miriam, and behold, she was leprous.
Numbers 12:11 And Aaron said to Moses, “Oh, my lord,  because we have done foolishly and have sinned.
Numbers 12:12 Let her not be as one dead, whose flesh is half eaten away when he comes out of his mother's womb.”
Numbers 12:13 And Moses cried to the LORD, “O God, please heal her — please.”
Numbers 12:14 But the LORD said to Moses, “If her father had but shut outside the camp seven days, and after that she may be brought in again.”
Numbers 12:15 So Miriam was shut outside the camp seven days, and the people did not set out on the march till Miriam was brought in again.
Numbers 12:16 After that the people set out from the wilderness of Paran.
Numbers 13:1 The LORD spoke to Moses, saying,
Numbers 13:2  “Send men to spy out the land of Canaan, which I am giving to the people of Israel. From each tribe of their fathers you shall send a man, every one a chief among them.”
Numbers 13:3 So Moses sent them from the wilderness of Paran, according to the command of the LORD, all of them men who were heads of the people of Israel.
Numbers 13:4 And these were their names: From the tribe of Reuben, Shammua the son of Zaccur;
Numbers 13:5 from the tribe of Simeon, Shaphat the son of Hori;
Numbers 13:6  Caleb the son of Jephunneh;
Numbers 13:7 from the tribe of Issachar, Igal the son of Joseph;
Numbers 13:8 from the tribe of Ephraim, Hoshea the son of Nun;
Numbers 13:9 from the tribe of Benjamin, Palti the son of Raphu;
Numbers 13:10 from the tribe of Zebulun, Gaddiel the son of Sodi;
Numbers 13:11 from the tribe of Joseph (that is, from the tribe of Manasseh), Gaddi the son of Susi;
Numbers 13:12 from the tribe of Dan, Ammiel the son of Gemalli;
Numbers 13:13 from the tribe of Asher, Sethur the son of Michael;
Numbers 13:14 from the tribe of Naphtali, Nahbi the son of Vophsi;
Numbers 13:15 from the tribe of Gad, Geuel the son of Machi.
Numbers 13:16 These were the names of the men whom Moses sent to spy out the land. And Moses called Hoshea the son of Nun Joshua.
Numbers 13:17 Moses sent them to spy out the land of Canaan and said to them, “Go up into the hill country,
Numbers 13:18 and see what the land is, and whether the people who dwell in it are strong or weak, whether they are few or many,
Numbers 13:19 and whether the land that they dwell in is good or bad, and whether the cities that they dwell in are camps or strongholds,
Numbers 13:20 and whether the land is Be of good courage and bring some of the fruit of the land.” Now the time was the season of the first ripe grapes.
Numbers 13:21 So they went up and spied out the land near Lebo-hamath.
Numbers 13:22 They went up into Zoan in Egypt.)
Numbers 13:23 And they came to the Valley of Eshcol and cut down from there a branch with a single cluster of grapes, and they carried it on a pole between two of them; they also brought some pomegranates and figs.
Numbers 13:24 That place was called the Valley of Eshcol,  because of the cluster that the people of Israel cut down from there.
Numbers 13:25 At the end of forty days they returned from spying out the land.
Numbers 13:26 And they came to Moses and Aaron and to all the congregation of the people of Israel in the wilderness of Paran, at Kadesh. They brought back word to them and to all the congregation, and showed them the fruit of the land.
Numbers 13:27 And they told him, “We came to the land to which you sent us. It and this is its fruit.
Numbers 13:28  However, the people who dwell in the land are strong, and the cities are fortified and very large. And besides, we saw the descendants of Anak there.
Numbers 13:29  And the Canaanites dwell by the sea, and along the Jordan.”
Numbers 13:30 But Caleb quieted the people before Moses and said, “Let us go up at once and occupy it, for we are well able to overcome it.”
Numbers 13:31  Then the men who had gone up with him said, “We are not able to go up against the people, for they are stronger than we are.”
Numbers 13:32 So all the people that we saw in it are of great height.
Numbers 13:33 And there we saw the like grasshoppers, and so we seemed to them.”
Numbers 14:1 Then all the congregation raised a loud cry, and the people wept that night.
Numbers 14:2 And all the people of Israel would that we had died in this wilderness!
Numbers 14:3 Why is the LORD bringing us into this land, to fall by the sword? Our wives and our little ones will become a prey. Would it not be better for us to go back to Egypt?”
Numbers 14:4 And they said to one another, go back to Egypt.”
Numbers 14:5 Then Moses and Aaron fell on their faces before all the assembly of the congregation of the people of Israel.
Numbers 14:6  And Joshua the son of Nun and Caleb the son of Jephunneh, who were among those who had spied out the land, tore their clothes
Numbers 14:7 and said to all the congregation of the people of Israel, “The land, which we passed through to spy it out, is an exceedingly good land.
Numbers 14:8 If a land that flows with milk and honey.
Numbers 14:9 Only they are bread for us. Their protection is removed from them, and the LORD is with us; do not fear them.”
Numbers 14:10  the glory of the LORD appeared at the tent of meeting to all the people of Israel.
Numbers 14:11 And the LORD said to Moses, “How long will this people believe in me, in spite of all the signs that I have done among them?
Numbers 14:12 I will strike them with the pestilence and disinherit them, and I will make of you a nation greater and mightier than they.”
Numbers 14:13 But Moses said to the LORD, “Then the Egyptians will hear of it, for you brought up this people in your might from among them,
Numbers 14:14 and they will tell the inhabitants of this land. your cloud stands over them and you go before them, in a pillar of cloud by day and in a pillar of fire by night.
Numbers 14:15 Now if you kill this people as one man, then the nations who have heard your fame will say,
Numbers 14:16 ‘It is because the LORD was not able to bring this people into the land that he swore to give to them that he has killed them in the wilderness.’
Numbers 14:17 And now, please let the power of the Lord be great as you have promised, saying,
Numbers 14:18  visiting the iniquity of the fathers on the children, to the third and the fourth generation.’
Numbers 14:19 Please as you have forgiven this people, from Egypt until now.”
Numbers 14:20 Then the LORD said, “I have pardoned, according to your word.
Numbers 14:21 But truly, as I live, and as all the earth shall be filled with the glory of the LORD,
Numbers 14:22  ten times and have not obeyed my voice,
Numbers 14:23  shall see the land that I swore to give to their fathers. And none of those who despised me shall see it.
Numbers 14:24 But my servant followed me fully, I will bring into the land into which he went, and his descendants shall possess it.
Numbers 14:25  turn tomorrow and set out for the wilderness by the way to the Red Sea.”
Numbers 14:26 And the LORD spoke to Moses and to Aaron, saying,
Numbers 14:27 “How long shall I have heard the grumblings of the people of Israel, which they grumble against me.
Numbers 14:28 Say to them, what you have said in my hearing I will do to you:
Numbers 14:29  from twenty years old and upward, who have grumbled against me,
Numbers 14:30 not one shall come into the land where I except Caleb the son of Jephunneh and Joshua the son of Nun.
Numbers 14:31  you have rejected.
Numbers 14:32 But as for you, your dead bodies shall fall in this wilderness.
Numbers 14:33 And your children suffer for your faithlessness, until the last of your dead bodies lies in the wilderness.
Numbers 14:34  forty days, a year for each day, you shall bear your iniquity forty years, and you shall know my displeasure.’
Numbers 14:35  this wicked congregation who are gathered together against me: in this wilderness they shall come to a full end, and there they shall die.”
Numbers 14:36  And the men whom Moses sent to spy out the land, who returned and made all the congregation grumble against him by bringing up a bad report about the land —
Numbers 14:37 the men who brought up a bad report of the land — died by plague before the LORD.
Numbers 14:38 Of those men who went to spy out the land, only Joshua the son of Nun and Caleb the son of Jephunneh remained alive.
Numbers 14:39 When Moses told these words to all the people of Israel, the people mourned greatly.
Numbers 14:40 And they rose early in the morning and went up to the heights of the hill country, saying, “Here we are. We will go up to the place that the LORD has promised, for we have sinned.”
Numbers 14:41  But Moses said, “Why now are you transgressing the command of the LORD, when that will not succeed?
Numbers 14:42  for the LORD is not among you, lest you be struck down before your enemies.
Numbers 14:43 For there the Amalekites and the Canaanites are facing you, and you shall fall by the sword. Because you have turned back from following the LORD, the LORD will not be with you.”
Numbers 14:44  the ark of the covenant of the LORD nor Moses departed out of the camp.
Numbers 14:45 Then Hormah.
Numbers 15:1 The LORD spoke to Moses, saying,
Numbers 15:2 “Speak to the people of Israel and say to them, When you come into the land you are to inhabit, which I am giving you,
Numbers 15:3 and pleasing aroma to the LORD,
Numbers 15:4 then  of oil;
Numbers 15:5 and you shall offer with the burnt offering, or for the sacrifice, a quarter of a hin of wine for the drink offering for each lamb.
Numbers 15:6  Or for a ram, you shall offer for a grain offering two tenths of an ephah of fine flour mixed with a third of a hin of oil.
Numbers 15:7 And for the drink offering you shall offer a third of a hin of wine, a pleasing aroma to the LORD.
Numbers 15:8 And when you offer a bull as a burnt offering or sacrifice, to peace offerings to the LORD,
Numbers 15:9 then one shall offer with the bull a grain offering of three tenths of an ephah of fine flour, mixed with half a hin of oil.
Numbers 15:10 And you shall offer for the drink offering half a hin of wine, as a food offering, a pleasing aroma to the LORD.
Numbers 15:11  “Thus it shall be done for each bull or ram, or for each lamb or young goat.
Numbers 15:12 As many as you offer, so shall you do with each one, as many as there are.
Numbers 15:13 Every native Israelite shall do these things in this way, in offering a food offering, with a pleasing aroma to the LORD.
Numbers 15:14 And if a stranger is sojourning with you, or anyone is living permanently among you, and he wishes to offer a food offering, with a pleasing aroma to the LORD, he shall do as you do.
Numbers 15:15 For the assembly, there shall be one statute for you and for the stranger who sojourns with you, a statute forever throughout your generations. You and the sojourner shall be alike before the LORD.
Numbers 15:16 One law and one rule shall be for you and for the stranger who sojourns with you.”
Numbers 15:17 The LORD spoke to Moses, saying,
Numbers 15:18  “Speak to the people of Israel and say to them, When you come into the land to which I bring you
Numbers 15:19 and when you eat of the bread of the land, you shall present a contribution to the LORD.
Numbers 15:20  contribution from the threshing floor, so shall you present it.
Numbers 15:21  Some of the first of your dough you shall give to the LORD as a contribution throughout your generations.
Numbers 15:22   and do not observe all these commandments that the LORD has spoken to Moses,
Numbers 15:23 all that the LORD has commanded you by Moses, from the day that the LORD gave commandment, and onward throughout your generations,
Numbers 15:24 then if it was done unintentionally one male goat for a sin offering.
Numbers 15:25  And the priest shall make atonement for all the congregation of the people of Israel, and they shall be forgiven, because it was a mistake, and they have brought their offering, a food offering to the LORD, and their sin offering before the LORD for their mistake.
Numbers 15:26 And all the congregation of the people of Israel shall be forgiven, and the stranger who sojourns among them, because the whole population was involved in the mistake.
Numbers 15:27  “If one person sins unintentionally, he shall offer a female goat a year old for a sin offering.
Numbers 15:28  And the priest shall make atonement before the LORD for the person who makes a mistake, when he sins unintentionally, to make atonement for him, and he shall be forgiven.
Numbers 15:29  You shall have one law for him who does anything unintentionally, for him who is native among the people of Israel and for the stranger who sojourns among them.
Numbers 15:30  But the person who does anything with a high hand, whether he is native or a sojourner, reviles the LORD, and that person shall be cut off from among his people.
Numbers 15:31 Because he has despised the word of the LORD and has broken his commandment, that person shall be utterly cut off; his iniquity shall be on him.”
Numbers 15:32 While the people of Israel were in the wilderness, they found a man gathering sticks on the Sabbath day.
Numbers 15:33 And those who found him gathering sticks brought him to Moses and Aaron and to all the congregation.
Numbers 15:34  They put him in custody, because it had not been made clear what should be done to him.
Numbers 15:35 And the LORD said to Moses, stone him with stones outside the camp.”
Numbers 15:36 And all the congregation brought him outside the camp and stoned him to death with stones, as the LORD commanded Moses.
Numbers 15:37 The LORD said to Moses,
Numbers 15:38 “Speak to the people of Israel, and tell them to make tassels on the corners of their garments throughout their generations, and to put a cord of blue on the tassel of each corner.
Numbers 15:39 And it shall be a tassel for you to look at and remember all the commandments of the LORD, to do them, to whore after.
Numbers 15:40 So you shall remember and do all my commandments, and be holy to your God.
Numbers 15:41  I am the LORD your God, who brought you out of the land of Egypt to be your God: I am the LORD your God.”
Numbers 16:1 Now Dathan and Abiram the sons of Eliab, and On the son of Peleth, sons of Reuben, took men.
Numbers 16:2 And they rose up before Moses, with a number of the people of Israel, 250 chiefs of the congregation, chosen from the assembly, well-known men.
Numbers 16:3  all in the congregation are holy, every one of them, and the LORD is among them. Why then do you exalt yourselves above the assembly of the LORD?”
Numbers 16:4 When Moses heard it, he fell on his face,
Numbers 16:5 and he said to Korah and all his company, “In the morning the LORD will show bring near to him.
Numbers 16:6 Do this: take censers, Korah and all his company;
Numbers 16:7 put fire in them and put incense on them before the LORD tomorrow, and the man whom the LORD chooses shall be the holy one. You have gone too far, sons of Levi!”
Numbers 16:8 And Moses said to Korah, “Hear now, you sons of Levi:
Numbers 16:9 is it separated you from the congregation of Israel, to bring you near to himself, to do service in the tabernacle of the LORD and to stand before the congregation to minister to them,
Numbers 16:10 and that he has brought you near him, and all your brothers the sons of Levi with you? And would you seek the priesthood also?
Numbers 16:11 Therefore it is against the LORD that you and all your company have gathered together. What is Aaron that you grumble against him?”
Numbers 16:12 And Moses sent to call Dathan and Abiram the sons of Eliab, and they said, “We will not come up.
Numbers 16:13 Is it make yourself a prince over us?
Numbers 16:14 Moreover, you have not brought us into a land flowing with milk and honey, nor given us inheritance of fields and vineyards. Will you put out the eyes of these men? We will not come up.”
Numbers 16:15 And Moses was very angry and said to the LORD, I have not taken one donkey from them, and I have not harmed one of them.”
Numbers 16:16 And Moses said to Korah, “Be present, you and all your company, before the LORD, you and they, and Aaron, tomorrow.
Numbers 16:17 And 250 censers; you also, and Aaron, each his censer.”
Numbers 16:18 So every man took his censer and put fire in them and laid incense on them and stood at the entrance of the tent of meeting with Moses and Aaron.
Numbers 16:19 Then Korah assembled all the congregation against them at the entrance of the tent of meeting. And the glory of the LORD appeared to all the congregation.
Numbers 16:20 And the LORD spoke to Moses and to Aaron, saying,
Numbers 16:21  in a moment.”
Numbers 16:22 And they shall one man sin, and will you be angry with all the congregation?”
Numbers 16:23 And the LORD spoke to Moses, saying,
Numbers 16:24 “Say to the congregation, Get away from the dwelling of Korah, Dathan, and Abiram.”
Numbers 16:25 Then Moses rose and went to Dathan and Abiram, and the elders of Israel followed him.
Numbers 16:26 And he spoke to the congregation, saying, “Depart, please, from the tents of these wicked men, and touch nothing of theirs, lest you be swept away with all their sins.”
Numbers 16:27 So they got away from the dwelling of Korah, Dathan, and Abiram. And Dathan and Abiram came out and stood at the door of their tents, together with their wives, their sons, and their little ones.
Numbers 16:28 And Moses said, “Hereby you shall know that the LORD has sent me to do all these works, and that it has not been of my own accord.
Numbers 16:29 If these men die as all men die, or if they are visited by the fate of all mankind, then the LORD has not sent me.
Numbers 16:30 But if the LORD creates something new, and go down alive into Sheol, then you shall know that these men have despised the LORD.”
Numbers 16:31  And as soon as he had finished speaking all these words, the ground under them split apart.
Numbers 16:32 And the earth opened its mouth and swallowed them up, with their households and all the people who belonged to Korah and all their goods.
Numbers 16:33 So they and all that belonged to them went down alive into Sheol, and the earth closed over them, and they perished from the midst of the assembly.
Numbers 16:34 And all Israel who were around them fled at their cry, for they said, “Lest the earth swallow us up!”
Numbers 16:35 And the 250 men offering the incense.
Numbers 16:36  Then the LORD spoke to Moses, saying,
Numbers 16:37 “Tell Eleazar the son of Aaron the priest to take up the censers out of the blaze. Then scatter the fire far and wide, for they have become holy.
Numbers 16:38 As for the censers of Thus they shall be a sign to the people of Israel.”
Numbers 16:39 So Eleazar the priest took the bronze censers, which those who were burned had offered, and they were hammered out as a covering for the altar,
Numbers 16:40 to be a reminder to the people of Israel, so that no outsider, who is not of the descendants of Aaron, should draw near to burn incense before the LORD, lest he become like Korah and his company — as the LORD said to him through Moses.
Numbers 16:41 But on the next day all the congregation of the people of Israel grumbled against Moses and against Aaron, saying, “You have killed the people of the LORD.”
Numbers 16:42 And when the congregation had assembled against Moses and against Aaron, they turned toward the tent of meeting. And behold, the glory of the LORD appeared.
Numbers 16:43 And Moses and Aaron came to the front of the tent of meeting,
Numbers 16:44 and the LORD spoke to Moses, saying,
Numbers 16:45  And they fell on their faces.
Numbers 16:46 And Moses said to Aaron, “Take your censer, and put fire on it from off the altar and lay incense on it and carry it quickly to the congregation and make atonement for them, for wrath has gone out from the LORD; the plague has begun.”
Numbers 16:47 So Aaron took it as Moses said and ran into the midst of the assembly. And behold, the plague had already begun among the people. And he put on the incense and made atonement for the people.
Numbers 16:48 And he stood between the dead and the living, and the plague was stopped.
Numbers 16:49 Now those who died in the plague were 14,700, besides those who died in the affair of Korah.
Numbers 16:50 And Aaron returned to Moses at the entrance of the tent of meeting, when the plague was stopped.
Numbers 17:1  The LORD spoke to Moses, saying,
Numbers 17:2  “Speak to the people of Israel, and get from them staffs, one for each fathers' house, from all their chiefs according to their fathers' houses, twelve staffs. Write each man's name on his staff,
Numbers 17:3 and write Aaron's name on the staff of Levi. For there shall be one staff for the head of each fathers' house.
Numbers 17:4 Then you shall deposit them in the tent of meeting before the testimony, where I meet with you.
Numbers 17:5 And the staff of the man the grumblings of the people of Israel, which they grumble against you.”
Numbers 17:6 Moses spoke to the people of Israel. And all their chiefs gave him staffs, one for each chief, according to their fathers' houses, twelve staffs. And the staff of Aaron was among their staffs.
Numbers 17:7 And Moses deposited the staffs before the LORD in the tent of the testimony.
Numbers 17:8 On the next day Moses went into the tent of the testimony, and behold, the staff of Aaron for the house of Levi had sprouted and put forth buds and produced blossoms, and it bore ripe almonds.
Numbers 17:9 Then Moses brought out all the staffs from before the LORD to all the people of Israel. And they looked, and each man took his staff.
Numbers 17:10 And the LORD said to Moses, “Put back that you may make an end of their grumblings against me, lest they die.”
Numbers 17:11 Thus did Moses; as the LORD commanded him, so he did.
Numbers 17:12 And the people of Israel said to Moses, “Behold, we perish, we are undone, we are all undone.
Numbers 17:13  Everyone who comes near, who comes near to the tabernacle of the LORD, shall die. Are we all to perish?”
Numbers 18:1 So the LORD said to Aaron, “You and your sons and your father's house with you shall and you and your sons with you shall bear iniquity connected with your priesthood.
Numbers 18:2 And with you bring your brothers also, the tribe of Levi, the tribe of your father, that they may minister to you while you and your sons with you are before the tent of the testimony.
Numbers 18:3 They shall keep guard over you and lest they, and you, die.
Numbers 18:4 They shall join you and keep guard over the tent of meeting for all the service of the tent, and no outsider shall come near you.
Numbers 18:5 And you shall that there may never again be wrath on the people of Israel.
Numbers 18:6  They are a gift to you, given to the LORD, to do the service of the tent of meeting.
Numbers 18:7 And any outsider who comes near shall be put to death.”
Numbers 18:8 Then the LORD spoke to Aaron, “Behold, as a portion and to your sons as a perpetual due.
Numbers 18:9 This shall be yours of the most holy things, reserved from the fire: every offering of theirs, every grain offering of theirs and every guilt offering of theirs, which they render to me, shall be most holy to you and to your sons.
Numbers 18:10 In a most holy place shall you eat it. Every male may eat it; it is holy to you.
Numbers 18:11 This also is yours: the contribution of their gift, all the Everyone who is clean in your house may eat it.
Numbers 18:12  the firstfruits of what they give to the LORD, I give to you.
Numbers 18:13 The first ripe fruits of all that is in their land, Everyone who is clean in your house may eat it.
Numbers 18:14  Every devoted thing in Israel shall be yours.
Numbers 18:15  the firstborn of man you shall redeem, and the firstborn of unclean animals you shall redeem.
Numbers 18:16 And their redemption price which is twenty gerahs.
Numbers 18:17  But the firstborn of a cow, or the firstborn of a sheep, or the firstborn of a goat, you shall not redeem; they are holy. You shall sprinkle their blood on the altar and shall burn their fat as a food offering, with a pleasing aroma to the LORD.
Numbers 18:18 But their flesh shall be yours, as the breast that is waved and as the right thigh are yours.
Numbers 18:19  It is a covenant of salt forever before the LORD for you and for your offspring with you.”
Numbers 18:20 And the LORD said to Aaron, “You shall have no inheritance in their land, neither shall you have any portion among them. I am your portion and your inheritance among the people of Israel.
Numbers 18:21  “To the Levites I have given every tithe in Israel for an inheritance, in return for their service that they do, their service in the tent of meeting,
Numbers 18:22  lest they bear sin and die.
Numbers 18:23 But and they shall bear their iniquity. It shall be a perpetual statute throughout your generations, and among the people of Israel they shall have no inheritance.
Numbers 18:24 For the tithe of the people of Israel, which among the people of Israel.”
Numbers 18:25 And the LORD spoke to Moses, saying,
Numbers 18:26 “Moreover, you shall speak and say to the Levites, ‘When you take from the people of Israel the tithe that I have given you from them for your inheritance, then you shall present a contribution from it to the LORD, a tithe of the tithe.
Numbers 18:27  And your contribution shall be counted to you as though it were the grain of the threshing floor, and as the fullness of the winepress.
Numbers 18:28 So you shall also present a contribution to the LORD from all your tithes, which you receive from the people of Israel. And from it you shall give the LORD's contribution to Aaron the priest.
Numbers 18:29 Out of all the gifts to you, you shall present every contribution due to the LORD; from each its best part is to be dedicated.’
Numbers 18:30 Therefore you shall say to them, ‘When you have offered from it the best of it, then the rest shall be counted to the Levites as produce of the threshing floor, and as produce of the winepress.
Numbers 18:31 And you may eat it in any place, you and your households, for it is your reward in return for your service in the tent of meeting.
Numbers 18:32 And you shall profane the holy things of the people of Israel, lest you die.’”
Numbers 19:1 Now the LORD spoke to Moses and to Aaron, saying,
Numbers 19:2 “This is the statute of the law that the LORD has commanded: Tell the people of Israel to bring you a red heifer without defect, in which there is no blemish, and on which a yoke has never come.
Numbers 19:3 And you shall give it to Eleazar the priest, and it shall be taken outside the camp and slaughtered before him.
Numbers 19:4 And Eleazar the priest shall take some of its blood with his finger, and sprinkle some of its blood toward the front of the tent of meeting seven times.
Numbers 19:5 And the heifer shall be burned in his sight. Its skin, its flesh, and its blood, with its dung, shall be burned.
Numbers 19:6 And the priest shall take cedarwood and hyssop and scarlet yarn, and throw them into the fire burning the heifer.
Numbers 19:7 Then the priest shall wash his clothes and bathe his body in water, and afterward he may come into the camp. But the priest shall be unclean until evening.
Numbers 19:8  shall wash his clothes in water and bathe his body in water and shall be unclean until evening.
Numbers 19:9 And a man who is clean shall gather up impurity for the congregation of the people of Israel; it is a sin offering.
Numbers 19:10 And the one who gathers the ashes of the heifer shall wash his clothes and be unclean until evening. And this shall be a perpetual statute for the people of Israel, and for the stranger who sojourns among them.
Numbers 19:11  “Whoever touches the dead body of any person shall be unclean seven days.
Numbers 19:12 He shall cleanse himself with the water on the third day and on the seventh day, and so be clean. But if he does not cleanse himself on the third day and on the seventh day, he will not become clean.
Numbers 19:13 Whoever touches a dead person, the body of anyone who has died, and does not cleanse himself, and that person shall be cut off from Israel; because the water for impurity was not thrown on him, he shall be unclean. His uncleanness is still on him.
Numbers 19:14 “This is the law when someone dies in a tent: everyone who comes into the tent and everyone who is in the tent shall be unclean seven days.
Numbers 19:15 And every open vessel that has no cover fastened on it is unclean.
Numbers 19:16  grave, shall be unclean seven days.
Numbers 19:17 For the unclean they shall take  water shall be added in a vessel.
Numbers 19:18 Then a clean person shall take hyssop and dip it in the water and sprinkle it on the tent and on all the furnishings and on the persons who were there and on whoever touched the bone, or the slain or the dead or the grave.
Numbers 19:19 And the clean person shall sprinkle it on the unclean wash his clothes and bathe himself in water, and at evening he shall be clean.
Numbers 19:20 “If the man who is unclean does not cleanse himself, that person shall be cut off from the midst of the assembly, since he has defiled the sanctuary of the LORD. Because the water for impurity has not been thrown on him, he is unclean.
Numbers 19:21 And it shall be a statute forever for them. The one who sprinkles the water for impurity shall wash his clothes, and the one who touches the water for impurity shall be unclean until evening.
Numbers 19:22 And whatever the unclean person touches shall be unclean, and anyone who touches it shall be unclean until evening.”
Numbers 20:1 And the people of Israel, the whole congregation, came Miriam died there and was buried there.
Numbers 20:2  And they assembled themselves together against Moses and against Aaron.
Numbers 20:3 And the people when our brothers perished before the LORD!
Numbers 20:4 Why have you brought the assembly of the LORD into this wilderness, that we should die here, both we and our cattle?
Numbers 20:5 And why have you made us come up out of Egypt to bring us to this evil place? It is no place for grain or figs or vines or pomegranates, and there is no water to drink.”
Numbers 20:6 Then Moses and Aaron went from the presence of the assembly to the entrance of the tent of meeting and And the glory of the LORD appeared to them,
Numbers 20:7 and the LORD spoke to Moses, saying,
Numbers 20:8  you shall bring water out of the rock for them and give drink to the congregation and their cattle.”
Numbers 20:9 And Moses took the staff from before the LORD, as he commanded him.
Numbers 20:10 Then Moses and Aaron gathered the assembly together before the rock, and he said to them, “Hear now, you rebels: shall we bring water for you out of this rock?”
Numbers 20:11 And Moses lifted up his hand and struck the rock with his staff twice, and water came out abundantly, and the congregation drank, and their livestock.
Numbers 20:12 And the LORD said to Moses and Aaron, “Because to uphold me as holy in the eyes of the people of Israel, therefore you shall not bring this assembly into the land that I have given them.”
Numbers 20:13   where the people of Israel quarreled with the LORD, and through them he showed himself holy.
Numbers 20:14  your brother Israel: You know all the hardship that we have met:
Numbers 20:15  And the Egyptians dealt harshly with us and our fathers.
Numbers 20:16 And sent an angel and brought us out of Egypt. And here we are in Kadesh, a city on the edge of your territory.
Numbers 20:17  or drink water from a well. We will go along the King's Highway. We will not turn aside to the right hand or to the left until we have passed through your territory.”
Numbers 20:18 But Edom said to him, “You shall not pass through, lest I come out with the sword against you.”
Numbers 20:19 And the people of Israel said to him, “We will go up by the highway, then I will pay for it. Let me only pass through on foot, nothing more.”
Numbers 20:20 But he said, “You shall not pass through.” And Edom came out against them with a large army and with a strong force.
Numbers 20:21 Thus Edom turned away from him.
Numbers 20:22 And they journeyed from Mount Hor.
Numbers 20:23 And the LORD said to Moses and Aaron at Mount Hor, on the border of the land of Edom,
Numbers 20:24  you rebelled against my command at the waters of Meribah.
Numbers 20:25 Take Aaron and Eleazar his son and bring them up to Mount Hor.
Numbers 20:26 And strip Aaron of his garments and put them on Eleazar his son. And Aaron shall be gathered to his people and shall die there.”
Numbers 20:27 Moses did as the LORD commanded. And they went up Mount Hor in the sight of all the congregation.
Numbers 20:28  on the top of the mountain. Then Moses and Eleazar came down from the mountain.
Numbers 20:29 And when all the congregation saw that Aaron had perished, all the house of Israel wept for Aaron thirty days.
Numbers 21:1 When the Negeb, heard that Israel was coming by the way of Atharim, he fought against Israel, and took some of them captive.
Numbers 21:2
Numbers 21:3 And the LORD heeded the voice of Israel and gave over the Canaanites, and they devoted them and their cities to destruction. So the name of the place was called
Numbers 21:4 From Mount Hor to go around the land of Edom. And the people became impatient on the way.
Numbers 21:5 And the people we loathe this worthless food.”
Numbers 21:6  they bit the people, so that many people of Israel died.
Numbers 21:7  Pray to the LORD, that he take away the serpents from us.” So Moses prayed for the people.
Numbers 21:8 And the LORD said to Moses, “Make a fiery serpent and set it on a pole, and everyone who is bitten, when he sees it, shall live.”
Numbers 21:9 So  serpent and set it on a pole. And if a serpent bit anyone, he would look at the bronze serpent and live.
Numbers 21:10 And the people of Israel set out and camped in Oboth.
Numbers 21:11  camped at Iye-abarim, in the wilderness that is opposite Moab, toward the sunrise.
Numbers 21:12 From there they set out and camped in the Valley of Zered.
Numbers 21:13 From there they set out and camped on the other side of the Arnon, which is in the wilderness that extends from the border of the Amorites, for the Arnon is the border of Moab, between Moab and the Amorites.
Numbers 21:14 Therefore it is said in the Book of the Wars of the LORD, “Waheb in Suphah, and the valleys of the Arnon,
Numbers 21:15 and the slope of the valleys that extends to the seat of Ar, and leans to the border of Moab.”
Numbers 21:16 And from there they continued I may give them water.”
Numbers 21:17 Then Israel sang this song: “Spring up, O well! — Sing to it! —
Numbers 21:18 the well that the princes made, that the nobles of the people dug, with the scepter and with their staffs.”  And from the wilderness they went on to Mattanah,
Numbers 21:19 and from Mattanah to Nahaliel, and from Nahaliel to Bamoth,
Numbers 21:20 and from Bamoth to the valley lying in the region of Moab by the top of Pisgah
Numbers 21:21 Then Israel sent messengers to Sihon king of the Amorites, saying,
Numbers 21:22  “Let me pass through your land. We will not turn aside into field or vineyard. We will not drink the water of a well. We will go by the King's Highway until we have passed through your territory.”
Numbers 21:23  came to Jahaz and fought against Israel.
Numbers 21:24  Jabbok, as far as to the Ammonites, for the border of the Ammonites was strong.
Numbers 21:25 And Israel took all these cities, and Israel settled in all the cities of the Amorites, in Heshbon, and in all its villages.
Numbers 21:26 For Heshbon was the city of Sihon the king of the Amorites, who had fought against the former king of Moab and taken all his land out of his hand, as far as the Arnon.
Numbers 21:27 Therefore the Heshbon, let it be built; let the city of Sihon be established.
Numbers 21:28 For  the heights of the Arnon.
Numbers 21:29  Chemosh! He has made his sons fugitives, and his daughters captives, to an Amorite king, Sihon.
Numbers 21:30 So we overthrew them; Heshbon, as far as
Numbers 21:31 Thus Israel lived in the land of the Amorites.
Numbers 21:32 And Moses sent to spy out Jazer, and they captured its villages and dispossessed the Amorites who were there.
Numbers 21:33 Then they turned and went up by the way to Bashan. And Og the king of Bashan came out against them, he and all his people, to battle at Edrei.
Numbers 21:34  you shall do to him as you did to Sihon king of the Amorites, who lived at Heshbon.”
Numbers 21:35 So they defeated him and his sons and all his people, until he had no survivor left. And they possessed his land.
Numbers 22:1 Then the people of Israel set out and camped in the plains of Moab beyond the Jordan at Jericho.
Numbers 22:2 And Balak the son of Zippor saw all that Israel had done to the Amorites.
Numbers 22:3 And Moab was in great dread of the people, because they were many. Moab was overcome with fear of the people of Israel.
Numbers 22:4 And Moab said to the elders of Midian, “This horde will now lick up all that is around us, as the ox licks up the grass of the field.” So Balak the son of Zippor, who was king of Moab at that time,
Numbers 22:5   to call him, saying, “Behold, a people has come out of Egypt. They cover the face of the earth, and they are dwelling opposite me.
Numbers 22:6  Come now, curse this people for me, since they are too mighty for me. Perhaps I shall be able to defeat them and drive them from the land, for I know that he whom you bless is blessed, and he whom you curse is cursed.”
Numbers 22:7 So the elders of Moab and the fees for divination in their hand. And they came to Balaam and gave him Balak's message.
Numbers 22:8 And he said to them, “Lodge here tonight, and I will bring back word to you, as the LORD speaks to me.” So the princes of Moab stayed with Balaam.
Numbers 22:9  And God came to Balaam and said, “Who are these men with you?”
Numbers 22:10 And Balaam said to God, “Balak the son of Zippor, king of Moab, has sent to me, saying,
Numbers 22:11 ‘Behold, a people has come out of Egypt, and it covers the face of the earth. Now come, curse them for me. Perhaps I shall be able to fight against them and drive them out.’”
Numbers 22:12 God said to Balaam, “You shall not go with them. You shall not curse the people, for they are blessed.”
Numbers 22:13 So Balaam rose in the morning and said to the princes of Balak, “Go to your own land, for the LORD has refused to let me go with you.”
Numbers 22:14 So the princes of Moab rose and went to Balak and said, “Balaam refuses to come with us.”
Numbers 22:15 Once again Balak sent princes, more in number and more honorable than these.
Numbers 22:16 And they came to Balaam and said to him, “Thus says Balak the son of Zippor: ‘Let nothing hinder you from coming to me,
Numbers 22:17  Come, curse this people for me.’”
Numbers 22:18 But Balaam answered and said to the servants of Balak, I could not go beyond the command of the LORD my God to do less or more.
Numbers 22:19 So you, too, please stay here tonight, that I may know what more the LORD will say to me.”
Numbers 22:20  but only do what I tell you.”
Numbers 22:21 So Balaam rose in the morning and saddled his donkey and went with the princes of Moab.
Numbers 22:22 But God's anger was kindled because he went, as his adversary. Now he was riding on the donkey, and his two servants were with him.
Numbers 22:23 And the donkey saw the angel of the LORD standing in the road, with a drawn sword in his hand. And the donkey turned aside out of the road and went into the field. And Balaam struck the donkey, to turn her into the road.
Numbers 22:24 Then the angel of the LORD stood in a narrow path between the vineyards, with a wall on either side.
Numbers 22:25 And when the donkey saw the angel of the LORD, she pushed against the wall and pressed Balaam's foot against the wall. So he struck her again.
Numbers 22:26 Then the angel of the LORD went ahead and stood in a narrow place, where there was no way to turn either to the right or to the left.
Numbers 22:27 When the donkey saw the angel of the LORD, she lay down under Balaam. And Balaam's anger was kindled, and he struck the donkey with his staff.
Numbers 22:28 Then the LORD opened the mouth of the donkey, and she said to Balaam, “What have I done to you, that you have struck me these three times?”
Numbers 22:29 And Balaam said to the donkey, “Because you have made a fool of me. I wish I had a sword in my hand, for then I would kill you.”
Numbers 22:30 And the donkey said to Balaam, “Am I not your donkey, on which you have ridden all your life long to this day? Is it my habit to treat you this way?” And he said, “No.”
Numbers 22:31 Then the LORD opened the eyes of Balaam, and he saw the angel of the LORD standing in the way, with his drawn sword in his hand. And he bowed down and fell on his face.
Numbers 22:32 And the angel of the LORD said to him, “Why have you struck your donkey these three times? Behold, I have come out  before me.
Numbers 22:33 The donkey saw me and turned aside before me these three times. If she had not turned aside from me, surely just now I would have killed you and let her live.”
Numbers 22:34 Then Balaam said to the angel of the LORD, “I have sinned, for I did not know that you stood in the road against me. Now therefore, if it is evil in your sight, I will turn back.”
Numbers 22:35 And the angel of the LORD said to Balaam, “Go with the men, but speak only the word that I tell you.” So Balaam went on with the princes of Balak.
Numbers 22:36 When Balak heard that Balaam had come, he went out to meet him at the city of Moab, on the border formed by the Arnon, at the extremity of the border.
Numbers 22:37 And Balak said to Balaam, “Did I not send to you to call you? Why did you not come to me? Am I not able to honor you?”
Numbers 22:38 Balaam said to Balak, “Behold, I have come to you! Have I now any power of my own to speak anything? The word that God puts in my mouth, that must I speak.”
Numbers 22:39 Then Balaam went with Balak, and they came to Kiriath-huzoth.
Numbers 22:40 And Balak sacrificed oxen and sheep, and sent for Balaam and for the princes who were with him.
Numbers 22:41 And in the morning Balak took Balaam and brought him up to Bamoth-baal, and from there he saw a fraction of the people.
Numbers 23:1 And Balaam said to Balak, “Build for me here seven altars, and prepare for me here seven bulls and seven rams.”
Numbers 23:2 Balak did as Balaam had said. And Balak and Balaam offered on each altar a bull and a ram.
Numbers 23:3 And Balaam said to Balak, to meet me, and whatever he shows me I will tell you.” And he went to a bare height,
Numbers 23:4  and God met Balaam. And Balaam said to him, “I have arranged the seven altars and I have offered on each altar a bull and a ram.”
Numbers 23:5 And the LORD put a word in Balaam's mouth and said, “Return to Balak, and thus you shall speak.”
Numbers 23:6 And he returned to him, and behold, he and all the princes of Moab were standing beside his burnt offering.
Numbers 23:7 And Balaam curse Jacob for me, and come, denounce Israel!’
Numbers 23:8 How can I curse whom God has not cursed? How can I denounce whom the LORD has not denounced?
Numbers 23:9 For from the top of the crags not counting itself among the nations!
Numbers 23:10  the death of the upright, and let my end be like his!”
Numbers 23:11 And Balak said to Balaam, “What have you done to me? I took you to curse my enemies, and behold, you have done nothing but bless them.”
Numbers 23:12 And he answered and said, “Must I not take care to speak what the LORD puts in my mouth?”
Numbers 23:13 And Balak said to him, “Please come with me to another place, from which you may see them. You shall see only a fraction of them and shall not see them all. Then curse them for me from there.”
Numbers 23:14 And he took him to the field of Zophim, to the top of Pisgah, and built seven altars and offered a bull and a ram on each altar.
Numbers 23:15 Balaam said to Balak, “Stand here beside your burnt offering, while I meet the LORD over there.”
Numbers 23:16 And the LORD met Balaam and put a word in his mouth and said, “Return to Balak, and thus shall you speak.”
Numbers 23:17 And he came to him, and behold, he was standing beside his burnt offering, and the princes of Moab with him. And Balak said to him, “What has the LORD spoken?”
Numbers 23:18 And Balaam took up his discourse and said, “Rise, Balak, and hear; give ear to me, O son of Zippor:
Numbers 23:19  God is not man, that he should lie, or a son of man, that he should change his mind. Has he said, and will he not do it? Or has he spoken, and will he not fulfill it?
Numbers 23:20 Behold, I received a command to bless:  I cannot revoke it.
Numbers 23:21  He has not beheld misfortune in Jacob, nor has he seen trouble in Israel. The LORD their God is with them, and the shout of a king is among them.
Numbers 23:22  the horns of the wild ox.
Numbers 23:23 For there is no enchantment against Jacob, no‘What has God wrought!’
Numbers 23:24 Behold, a people!it does not lie down until it has devoured the prey and drunk the blood of the slain.”
Numbers 23:25 And Balak said to Balaam, “Do not curse them at all, and do not bless them at all.”
Numbers 23:26 But Balaam answered Balak, “Did I not tell you, ‘All that the LORD says, that I must do’?”
Numbers 23:27 And Balak said to Balaam, “Come now, I will take you to another place. Perhaps it will please God that you may curse them for me from there.”
Numbers 23:28 So Balak took Balaam to the top of
Numbers 23:29 And Balaam said to Balak, “Build for me here seven altars and prepare for me here seven bulls and seven rams.”
Numbers 23:30  And Balak did as Balaam had said, and offered a bull and a ram on each altar.
Numbers 24:1 When Balaam saw that it pleased the LORD to bless Israel, he did not go, as at other times, to look for omens, but set his face toward the wilderness.
Numbers 24:2 And Balaam lifted up his eyes and saw Israel the Spirit of God came upon him,
Numbers 24:3 and he
Numbers 24:4 the oracle of him who hears the words of God, who sees the vision of the Almighty, falling down with his eyes uncovered:
Numbers 24:5 How lovely are your tents, O Jacob, your encampments, O Israel!
Numbers 24:6 Like palm groves that the LORD has planted, like cedar trees beside the waters.
Numbers 24:7 Water shall flow from his buckets, and his seed shall be his kingdom shall be exalted.
Numbers 24:8 God brings him out of Egypt and is for him like the pierce them through with his arrows.
Numbers 24:9 He crouched, he lay down like a lion andBlessed are those who bless you, and cursed are those who curse you.”
Numbers 24:10 And Balak's anger was kindled against Balaam, and he “I called you to curse my enemies, and behold, you have blessed them these three times.
Numbers 24:11 Therefore now flee to your own place. I said, ‘I will certainly honor you,’ but the LORD has held you back from honor.”
Numbers 24:12 And Balaam said to Balak, “Did I not tell your messengers whom you sent to me,
Numbers 24:13  of my own will. What the LORD speaks, that will I speak’?
Numbers 24:14 And now, behold, I am going to my people. Come, in the latter days.”
Numbers 24:15  And he took up his discourse and said, “The oracle of Balaam the son of Beor, the oracle of the man whose eye is opened,
Numbers 24:16 the oracle of him who hears the words of God, and knows the knowledge offalling down with his eyes uncovered:
Numbers 24:17   of Moab and break down all the sons of Sheth.
Numbers 24:18 Seir also, his enemies, shall be dispossessed. Israel is doing valiantly.
Numbers 24:19 And one from Jacob shall exercise dominion and destroy the survivors of cities!”
Numbers 24:20 Then he looked on Amalek andbut its end is utter destruction.”
Numbers 24:21 And he looked on the Kenite, and took up his discourse and said, “Enduring is your dwelling place, and your nest is set in the rock.
Numbers 24:22 Nevertheless, Kain shall be burned when Asshur takes you away captive.”
Numbers 24:23 And he took up his discourse and said, “Alas, who shall live when God does this?
Numbers 24:24 But ships shall come from shall come to utter destruction.”
Numbers 24:25 Then Balaam rose and went back to his place. And Balak also went his way.
Numbers 25:1 While Israel lived in the people began to whore with the daughters of Moab.
Numbers 25:2  These invited the people to the sacrifices of their gods, and the people ate and bowed down to their gods.
Numbers 25:3 So Israel yoked himself to Baal of Peor. And the anger of the LORD was kindled against Israel.
Numbers 25:4 And the LORD said to Moses, that the fierce anger of the LORD may turn away from Israel.”
Numbers 25:5 And Moses said to “Each of you kill those of his men who have yoked themselves to Baal of Peor.”
Numbers 25:6 And behold, one of the people of Israel came and brought a Midianite woman to his family, in the sight of Moses and in the sight of the whole congregation of the people of Israel, while they were weeping in the entrance of the tent of meeting.
Numbers 25:7  the son of Eleazar, son of Aaron the priest, saw it, he rose and left the congregation and took a spear in his hand
Numbers 25:8 and went after the man of Israel into the chamber and pierced both of them, the man of Israel and the woman through her belly. Thus the plague on the people of Israel was stopped.
Numbers 25:9 Nevertheless, those who died by the plague were twenty-four thousand.
Numbers 25:10 And the LORD said to Moses,
Numbers 25:11 “Phinehas the son of Eleazar, son of Aaron the priest, has turned back my wrath from the people of Israel, in that he my jealousy.
Numbers 25:12 Therefore say, ‘Behold, I give to him my covenant of peace,
Numbers 25:13 and it shall be to him and to a perpetual priesthood, because he was jealous for his God and made atonement for the people of Israel.’”
Numbers 25:14 The name of the slain man of Israel, who was killed with the Midianite woman, was Zimri the son of Salu, chief of a father's house belonging to the Simeonites.
Numbers 25:15 And the name of the Midianite woman who was killed was Cozbi the daughter of Zur, who was the tribal head of a father's house in Midian.
Numbers 25:16 And the LORD spoke to Moses, saying,
Numbers 25:17  “Harass the Midianites and strike them down,
Numbers 25:18 for they have harassed you with their Peor, and in the matter of Cozbi, the daughter of the chief of Midian, their sister, who was killed on the day of the plague on account of Peor.”
Numbers 26:1  After the plague, the LORD said to Moses and to Eleazar the son of Aaron, the priest,
Numbers 26:2  “Take a census of all the congregation of the people of Israel, from twenty years old and upward, by their fathers' houses, all in Israel who are able to go to war.”
Numbers 26:3 And Moses and Eleazar the priest spoke with them in the plains of Moab by the Jordan at Jericho, saying,
Numbers 26:4 “Take a census of the people, commanded Moses. The people of Israel who came out of the land of Egypt were:
Numbers 26:5  Reuben, the firstborn of Israel; the sons of Reuben: of Hanoch, the clan of the Hanochites; of Pallu, the clan of the Palluites;
Numbers 26:6 of Hezron, the clan of the Hezronites; of Carmi, the clan of the Carmites.
Numbers 26:7 These are the clans of the Reubenites, and those listed were 43,730.
Numbers 26:8 And the sons of Pallu: Eliab.
Numbers 26:9 The sons of Eliab: Nemuel, Dathan, and Abiram. These are the Dathan and Abiram, chosen from the congregation, who contended against Moses and Aaron in the company of Korah, when they contended against the LORD
Numbers 26:10 and they became a warning.
Numbers 26:11 But the sons of Korah did not die.
Numbers 26:12 The sons of Simeon according to their clans: of Nemuel, the clan of the Nemuelites; of Jamin, the clan of the Jaminites; of Jachin, the clan of the Jachinites;
Numbers 26:13 of Zerah, the clan of the Zerahites; of Shaul, the clan of the Shaulites.
Numbers 26:14 These are the clans of the Simeonites, 22,200.
Numbers 26:15 The sons of Gad according to their clans: of Zephon, the clan of the Zephonites; of Haggi, the clan of the Haggites; of Shuni, the clan of the Shunites;
Numbers 26:16 of Ozni, the clan of the Oznites; of Eri, the clan of the Erites;
Numbers 26:17 of Arod, the clan of the Arodites; of Areli, the clan of the Arelites.
Numbers 26:18 These are the clans of the sons of Gad as they were listed, 40,500.
Numbers 26:19 The sons of Judah were Er and Onan; and Er and Onan died in the land of Canaan.
Numbers 26:20 And the sons of Judah according to their clans were: of Shelah, the clan of the Shelanites; of Perez, the clan of the Perezites; of Zerah, the clan of the Zerahites.
Numbers 26:21 And the sons of Perez were: of Hezron, the clan of the Hezronites; of Hamul, the clan of the Hamulites.
Numbers 26:22 These are the clans of Judah as they were listed, 76,500.
Numbers 26:23 The sons of Issachar according to their clans: of Tola, the clan of the Tolaites; of Puvah, the clan of the Punites;
Numbers 26:24 of Jashub, the clan of the Jashubites; of Shimron, the clan of the Shimronites.
Numbers 26:25 These are the clans of Issachar as they were listed, 64,300.
Numbers 26:26 The sons of Zebulun, according to their clans: of Sered, the clan of the Seredites; of Elon, the clan of the Elonites; of Jahleel, the clan of the Jahleelites.
Numbers 26:27 These are the clans of the Zebulunites as they were listed, 60,500.
Numbers 26:28 The sons of Joseph according to their clans: Manasseh and Ephraim.
Numbers 26:29  of Gilead, the clan of the Gileadites.
Numbers 26:30 These are the sons of Gilead: of Iezer, the clan of the Iezerites; of Helek, the clan of the Helekites;
Numbers 26:31 and of Asriel, the clan of the Asrielites; and of Shechem, the clan of the Shechemites;
Numbers 26:32 and of Shemida, the clan of the Shemidaites; and of Hepher, the clan of the Hepherites.
Numbers 26:33 Now Zelophehad the son of Hepher had no sons, but daughters. And the names of the daughters of Zelophehad were Mahlah, Noah, Hoglah, Milcah, and Tirzah.
Numbers 26:34 These are the clans of Manasseh, and those listed were 52,700.
Numbers 26:35 These are the sons of Ephraim according to their clans: of Shuthelah, the clan of the Shuthelahites; of Becher, the clan of the Becherites; of Tahan, the clan of the Tahanites.
Numbers 26:36 And these are the sons of Shuthelah: of Eran, the clan of the Eranites.
Numbers 26:37 These are the clans of the sons of Ephraim as they were listed, 32,500. These are the sons of Joseph according to their clans.
Numbers 26:38 The sons of Benjamin according to their clans: of Bela, the clan of the Belaites; of Ashbel, the clan of the Ashbelites; of Ahiram, the clan of the Ahiramites;
Numbers 26:39 of Shephupham, the clan of the Shuphamites; of Hupham, the clan of the Huphamites.
Numbers 26:40 And the sons of Bela were Ard and Naaman: of Ard, the clan of the Ardites; of Naaman, the clan of the Naamites.
Numbers 26:41 These are the sons of Benjamin according to their clans, and those listed were 45,600.
Numbers 26:42 These are the sons of Dan according to their clans: of Shuham, the clan of the Shuhamites. These are the clans of Dan according to their clans.
Numbers 26:43 All the clans of the Shuhamites, as they were listed, were 64,400.
Numbers 26:44 The sons of Asher according to their clans: of Imnah, the clan of the Imnites; of Ishvi, the clan of the Ishvites; of Beriah, the clan of the Beriites.
Numbers 26:45 Of the sons of Beriah: of Heber, the clan of the Heberites; of Malchiel, the clan of the Malchielites.
Numbers 26:46 And the name of the daughter of Asher was Serah.
Numbers 26:47 These are the clans of the sons of Asher as they were listed, 53,400.
Numbers 26:48 The sons of Naphtali according to their clans: of Jahzeel, the clan of the Jahzeelites; of Guni, the clan of the Gunites;
Numbers 26:49 of Jezer, the clan of the Jezerites; of Shillem, the clan of the Shillemites.
Numbers 26:50 These are the clans of Naphtali according to their clans, and those listed were 45,400.
Numbers 26:51 This was the list of the people of Israel, 601,730.
Numbers 26:52 The LORD spoke to Moses, saying,
Numbers 26:53  “Among these the land shall be divided for inheritance according to the number of names.
Numbers 26:54  To a large tribe you shall give a large inheritance, and to a small tribe you shall give a small inheritance; every tribe shall be given its inheritance in proportion to its list.
Numbers 26:55 But the land shall be divided by lot. According to the names of the tribes of their fathers they shall inherit.
Numbers 26:56 Their inheritance shall be divided according to lot between the larger and the smaller.”
Numbers 26:57  This was the list of the Levites according to their clans: of Gershon, the clan of the Gershonites; of Kohath, the clan of the Kohathites; of Merari, the clan of the Merarites.
Numbers 26:58 These are the clans of Levi: the clan of the Libnites, the clan of the Hebronites, the clan of the Mahlites, the clan of the Mushites, the clan of the Korahites. And Kohath was the father of Amram.
Numbers 26:59 The name of Amram's wife was Jochebed the daughter of Levi, who was born to Levi in Egypt. And she bore to Amram Aaron and Moses and Miriam their sister.
Numbers 26:60  And to Aaron were born Nadab, Abihu, Eleazar, and Ithamar.
Numbers 26:61  But Nadab and Abihu died when they offered unauthorized fire before the LORD.
Numbers 26:62 And those listed were there was no inheritance given to them among the people of Israel.
Numbers 26:63 These were those listed by Moses and Eleazar the priest, who listed the people of Israel in the plains of Moab by the Jordan at Jericho.
Numbers 26:64  But among these there was not one of those listed by Moses and Aaron the priest, who had listed the people of Israel in the wilderness of Sinai.
Numbers 26:65 For the LORD had said of them, except Caleb the son of Jephunneh and Joshua the son of Nun.
Numbers 27:1 Then drew near the daughters of Zelophehad the son of Hepher, son of Gilead, son of Machir, son of Manasseh, from the clans of Manasseh the son of Joseph. The names of his daughters were: Mahlah, Noah, Hoglah, Milcah, and Tirzah.
Numbers 27:2 And they stood before Moses and before Eleazar the priest and before the chiefs and all the congregation, at the entrance of the tent of meeting, saying,
Numbers 27:3 “Our father died for his own sin. And he had no sons.
Numbers 27:4 Why should the name of our father be taken away from his clan because he had no son? Give to us a possession among our father's brothers.”
Numbers 27:5 Moses brought their case before the LORD.
Numbers 27:6 And the LORD said to Moses,
Numbers 27:7 “The daughters of Zelophehad You shall give them possession of an inheritance among their father's brothers and transfer the inheritance of their father to them.
Numbers 27:8 And you shall speak to the people of Israel, saying, ‘If a man dies and has no son, then you shall transfer his inheritance to his daughter.
Numbers 27:9 And if he has no daughter, then you shall give his inheritance to his brothers.
Numbers 27:10 And if he has no brothers, then you shall give his inheritance to his father's brothers.
Numbers 27:11 And if his father has no brothers, then you shall give his inheritance to the nearest a statute and rule, as the LORD commanded Moses.’”
Numbers 27:12 The LORD said to Moses, “Go up into this mountain of Abarim and see the land that I have given to the people of Israel.
Numbers 27:13 When you have seen it, you also shall be gathered to your people, as your brother Aaron was,
Numbers 27:14  the waters of Meribah of Kadesh in the wilderness of Zin.)
Numbers 27:15 Moses spoke to the LORD, saying,
Numbers 27:16 “Let the LORD, the God of the spirits of all flesh, appoint a man over the congregation
Numbers 27:17 who as sheep that have no shepherd.”
Numbers 27:18 So the LORD said to Moses, “Take lay your hand on him.
Numbers 27:19 Make him stand before Eleazar the priest and all the congregation, and you shall commission him in their sight.
Numbers 27:20 You shall invest him with some of your authority, that all the congregation of the people of Israel may obey.
Numbers 27:21 And he shall stand before Eleazar the priest, who shall inquire for him by the judgment of the Urim before the LORD. At his word they shall go out, and at his word they shall come in, both he and all the people of Israel with him, the whole congregation.”
Numbers 27:22 And Moses did as the LORD commanded him. He took Joshua and made him stand before Eleazar the priest and the whole congregation,
Numbers 27:23 and he laid his hands on him and commissioned him as the LORD directed through Moses.
Numbers 28:1 The LORD spoke to Moses, saying,
Numbers 28:2 “Command the people of Israel and say to them, ‘My offering, pleasing aroma, you shall be careful to offer to me at its appointed time.’
Numbers 28:3  And you shall say to them, This is the food offering that you shall offer to the LORD: two male lambs a year old without blemish, day by day, as a regular offering.
Numbers 28:4 The one lamb you shall offer in the morning, and the other lamb you shall offer at twilight;
Numbers 28:5 also  of beaten oil.
Numbers 28:6 It is a regular burnt offering, which was ordained at Mount Sinai for a pleasing aroma, a food offering to the LORD.
Numbers 28:7 Its drink offering shall be a quarter of a hin for each lamb. In the Holy Place you shall pour out a drink offering of strong drink to the LORD.
Numbers 28:8 The other lamb you shall offer at twilight. Like the grain offering of the morning, and like its drink offering, you shall offer it as a food offering, with a pleasing aroma to the LORD.
Numbers 28:9 “On the Sabbath day, two male lambs a year old without blemish, and two tenths of an ephah of fine flour for a grain offering, mixed with oil, and its drink offering:
Numbers 28:10 this is the burnt offering of every Sabbath, besides the regular burnt offering and its drink offering.
Numbers 28:11  “At the beginnings of your months, you shall offer a burnt offering to the LORD: two bulls from the herd, one ram, seven male lambs a year old without blemish;
Numbers 28:12 also three tenths of an ephah of fine flour for a grain offering, mixed with oil, for each bull, and two tenths of fine flour for a grain offering, mixed with oil, for the one ram;
Numbers 28:13 and a tenth of fine flour mixed with oil as a grain offering for every lamb; for a burnt offering with a pleasing aroma, a food offering to the LORD.
Numbers 28:14 Their drink offerings shall be half a hin of wine for a bull, a third of a hin for a ram, and a quarter of a hin for a lamb. This is the burnt offering of each month throughout the months of the year.
Numbers 28:15 Also one male goat for a sin offering to the LORD; it shall be offered besides the regular burnt offering and its drink offering.
Numbers 28:16  “On the fourteenth day of the first month is the LORD's Passover,
Numbers 28:17  and on the fifteenth day of this month is a feast. Seven days shall unleavened bread be eaten.
Numbers 28:18  On the first day there shall be a holy convocation. You shall not do any ordinary work,
Numbers 28:19 but offer a food offering, a burnt offering to the LORD: two bulls from the herd, one ram, and seven male lambs a year old; see that they are without blemish;
Numbers 28:20 also their grain offering of fine flour mixed with oil; three tenths of an ephah shall you offer for a bull, and two tenths for a ram;
Numbers 28:21 a tenth shall you offer for each of the seven lambs;
Numbers 28:22 also one male goat for a sin offering, to make atonement for you.
Numbers 28:23 You shall offer these besides the burnt offering of the morning, which is for a regular burnt offering.
Numbers 28:24 In the same way you shall offer daily, for seven days, the food of a food offering, with a pleasing aroma to the LORD. It shall be offered besides the regular burnt offering and its drink offering.
Numbers 28:25 And on the seventh day you shall have a holy convocation. You shall not do any ordinary work.
Numbers 28:26 “On the day of the firstfruits, when you offer a grain offering of new grain to the LORD at your Feast of Weeks, you shall have a holy convocation. You shall not do any ordinary work,
Numbers 28:27 but offer a burnt offering, with a pleasing aroma to the LORD: two bulls from the herd, one ram, seven male lambs a year old;
Numbers 28:28 also their grain offering of fine flour mixed with oil, three tenths of an ephah for each bull, two tenths for one ram,
Numbers 28:29 a tenth for each of the seven lambs;
Numbers 28:30 with one male goat, to make atonement for you.
Numbers 28:31 Besides the regular burnt offering and its grain offering, you shall offer them and their drink offering. See that they are without blemish.
Numbers 29:1 “On the first day of the seventh month you shall have a holy convocation. You shall not do any ordinary work. It is a day for you to blow the trumpets,
Numbers 29:2 and you shall offer a burnt offering, for a pleasing aroma to the LORD: one bull from the herd, one ram, seven male lambs a year old without blemish;
Numbers 29:3 also their grain offering of fine flour mixed with oil, three tenths of an ephah  for the bull, two tenths for the ram,
Numbers 29:4 and one tenth for each of the seven lambs;
Numbers 29:5 with one male goat for a sin offering, to make atonement for you;
Numbers 29:6 besides the regular burnt offering and its grain offering, and their drink offering, according to the rule for them, for a pleasing aroma, a food offering to the LORD.
Numbers 29:7   You shall do no work,
Numbers 29:8 but you shall offer a burnt offering to the LORD, a pleasing aroma: one bull from the herd, one ram, seven male lambs a year old: see that they are without blemish.
Numbers 29:9 And their grain offering shall be of fine flour mixed with oil, three tenths of an ephah for the bull, two tenths for the one ram,
Numbers 29:10 a tenth for each of the seven lambs:
Numbers 29:11 also the sin offering of atonement, and the regular burnt offering and its grain offering, and their drink offerings.
Numbers 29:12  “On the fifteenth day of the seventh month you shall have a holy convocation. You shall not do any ordinary work, and you shall keep a feast to the LORD seven days.
Numbers 29:13 And you shall offer a burnt offering, a food offering, with a pleasing aroma to the LORD, thirteen bulls from the herd, two rams, fourteen male lambs a year old; they shall be without blemish;
Numbers 29:14 and their grain offering of fine flour mixed with oil, three tenths of an ephah for each of the thirteen bulls, two tenths for each of the two rams,
Numbers 29:15 and a tenth for each of the fourteen lambs;
Numbers 29:16 also one male goat for a sin offering, besides the regular burnt offering, its grain offering and its drink offering.
Numbers 29:17 “On the second day twelve bulls from the herd, two rams, fourteen male lambs a year old without blemish,
Numbers 29:18 with the grain offering and the drink offerings for the bulls, for the rams, and for the lambs, in the prescribed quantities;
Numbers 29:19 also one male goat for a sin offering, besides the regular burnt offering and its grain offering, and their drink offerings.
Numbers 29:20 “On the third day eleven bulls, two rams, fourteen male lambs a year old without blemish,
Numbers 29:21 with the grain offering and the drink offerings for the bulls, for the rams, and for the lambs, in the prescribed quantities;
Numbers 29:22 also one male goat for a sin offering, besides the regular burnt offering and its grain offering and its drink offering.
Numbers 29:23 “On the fourth day ten bulls, two rams, fourteen male lambs a year old without blemish,
Numbers 29:24 with the grain offering and the drink offerings for the bulls, for the rams, and for the lambs, in the prescribed quantities;
Numbers 29:25 also one male goat for a sin offering, besides the regular burnt offering, its grain offering and its drink offering.
Numbers 29:26 “On the fifth day nine bulls, two rams, fourteen male lambs a year old without blemish,
Numbers 29:27 with the grain offering and the drink offerings for the bulls, for the rams, and for the lambs, in the prescribed quantities;
Numbers 29:28 also one male goat for a sin offering; besides the regular burnt offering and its grain offering and its drink offering.
Numbers 29:29 “On the sixth day eight bulls, two rams, fourteen male lambs a year old without blemish,
Numbers 29:30 with the grain offering and the drink offerings for the bulls, for the rams, and for the lambs, in the prescribed quantities;
Numbers 29:31 also one male goat for a sin offering; besides the regular burnt offering, its grain offering, and its drink offerings.
Numbers 29:32 “On the seventh day seven bulls, two rams, fourteen male lambs a year old without blemish,
Numbers 29:33 with the grain offering and the drink offerings for the bulls, for the rams, and for the lambs, in the prescribed quantities;
Numbers 29:34 also one male goat for a sin offering; besides the regular burnt offering, its grain offering, and its drink offering.
Numbers 29:35  solemn assembly. You shall not do any ordinary work,
Numbers 29:36 but you shall offer a burnt offering, a food offering, with a pleasing aroma to the LORD: one bull, one ram, seven male lambs a year old without blemish,
Numbers 29:37 and the grain offering and the drink offerings for the bull, for the ram, and for the lambs, in the prescribed quantities;
Numbers 29:38 also one male goat for a sin offering; besides the regular burnt offering and its grain offering and its drink offering.
Numbers 29:39 “These you shall offer to the LORD at your vow offerings and your freewill offerings, for your burnt offerings, and for your grain offerings, and for your drink offerings, and for your peace offerings.”
Numbers 29:40  So Moses told the people of Israel everything just as the LORD had commanded Moses.
Numbers 30:1 Moses spoke to the heads of the tribes of the people of Israel, saying, “This is what the LORD has commanded.
Numbers 30:2  He shall do according to all that proceeds out of his mouth.
Numbers 30:3 “If a woman vows a vow to the LORD and binds herself by a pledge, while within her father's house in her youth,
Numbers 30:4 and her father hears of her vow and of her pledge by which she has bound herself and says nothing to her, then all her vows shall stand, and every pledge by which she has bound herself shall stand.
Numbers 30:5 But if her father opposes her on the day that he hears of it, no vow of hers, no pledge by which she has bound herself shall stand. And the LORD will forgive her, because her father opposed her.
Numbers 30:6 “If she marries a husband, while under her vows or any thoughtless utterance of her lips by which she has bound herself,
Numbers 30:7 and her husband hears of it and says nothing to her on the day that he hears, then her vows shall stand, and her pledges by which she has bound herself shall stand.
Numbers 30:8 But if, on the day that her husband comes to hear of it, he opposes her, then he makes void her And the LORD will forgive her.
Numbers 30:9 (But any vow of a widow or of a divorced woman, anything by which she has bound herself, shall stand against her.)
Numbers 30:10 And if she vowed in her husband's house or bound herself by a pledge with an oath,
Numbers 30:11 and her husband heard of it and said nothing to her and did not oppose her, then all her vows shall stand, and every pledge by which she bound herself shall stand.
Numbers 30:12 But if her husband makes them null and void on the day that he hears them, then whatever proceeds out of her lips concerning her vows or concerning her pledge of herself shall not stand. Her husband has made them void, and the LORD will forgive her.
Numbers 30:13 Any vow and any binding oath to afflict herself,  or her husband may make void.
Numbers 30:14 But if her husband says nothing to her from day to day, then he establishes all her vows or all her pledges that are upon her. He has established them, because he said nothing to her on the day that he heard of them.
Numbers 30:15 But if he makes them null and void after he has heard of them, then he shall bear her iniquity.”
Numbers 30:16 These are the statutes that the LORD commanded Moses about a man and his wife and about a father and his daughter while she is in her youth within her father's house.
Numbers 31:1 The LORD spoke to Moses, saying,
Numbers 31:2  be gathered to your people.”
Numbers 31:3 So Moses spoke to the people, saying, “Arm men from among you for the war, that they may go against Midian to execute the LORD's vengeance on Midian.
Numbers 31:4 You shall send a thousand from each of the tribes of Israel to the war.”
Numbers 31:5 So there were provided, out of the thousands of Israel, a thousand from each tribe, twelve thousand armed for war.
Numbers 31:6 And Moses sent them to the war, a thousand from each tribe, together with Phinehas the son of Eleazar the priest, with the vessels of the sanctuary and the trumpets for the alarm in his hand.
Numbers 31:7 They warred against Midian, as the LORD commanded Moses, and killed every male.
Numbers 31:8 They killed the kings of Midian with the rest of their slain, Balaam the son of Beor with the sword.
Numbers 31:9 And the people of Israel took captive the women of Midian and their little ones, and they took as plunder all their cattle, their flocks, and all their goods.
Numbers 31:10 All their cities in the places where they lived, and all their encampments, they burned with fire,
Numbers 31:11  and took all the spoil and all the plunder, both of man and of beast.
Numbers 31:12 Then they brought the captives and the plunder and the spoil to Moses, and to Eleazar the priest, and to the congregation of the people of Israel, at the camp on the plains of Moab by the Jordan at Jericho.
Numbers 31:13 Moses and Eleazar the priest and all the chiefs of the congregation went to meet them outside the camp.
Numbers 31:14 And Moses was angry with the officers of the army, the commanders of thousands and the commanders of hundreds, who had come from service in the war.
Numbers 31:15 Moses said to them, “Have you let all the women live?
Numbers 31:16 Behold, the plague came among the congregation of the LORD.
Numbers 31:17 Now therefore, kill every male among the little ones, and kill every woman who has known man by lying with him.
Numbers 31:18 But all the young girls who have not known man by lying with him keep alive for yourselves.
Numbers 31:19  whoever has touched any slain, purify yourselves and your captives on the third day and on the seventh day.
Numbers 31:20 You shall purify every garment, every article of skin, all work of goats' hair, and every article of wood.”
Numbers 31:21 Then Eleazar the priest said to the men in the army who had gone to battle: “This is the statute of the law that the LORD has commanded Moses:
Numbers 31:22 only the gold, the silver, the bronze, the iron, the tin, and the lead,
Numbers 31:23 everything that can stand the fire, you shall pass through the fire, and it shall be clean. Nevertheless, it shall also be purified with the water for impurity. And whatever cannot stand the fire, you shall pass through the water.
Numbers 31:24 You must wash your clothes on the seventh day, and you shall be clean. And afterward you may come into the camp.”
Numbers 31:25 The LORD said to Moses,
Numbers 31:26 “Take the count of the plunder that was taken, both of man and of beast, you and Eleazar the priest and the heads of the fathers' houses of the congregation,
Numbers 31:27 and divide the plunder into two parts between the warriors who went out to battle and all the congregation.
Numbers 31:28 And levy for the LORD a tribute from the men of war who went out to battle, one out of five hundred, of the people and of the oxen and of the donkeys and of the flocks.
Numbers 31:29 Take it from their half and give it to Eleazar the priest as a contribution to the LORD.
Numbers 31:30 And from the people of Israel's half you shall take who keep guard over the tabernacle of the LORD.”
Numbers 31:31 And Moses and Eleazar the priest did as the LORD commanded Moses.
Numbers 31:32 Now the plunder remaining of the spoil that the army took was 675,000 sheep,
Numbers 31:33 72,000 cattle,
Numbers 31:34 61,000 donkeys,
Numbers 31:35 and 32,000 persons in all, women who had not known man by lying with him.
Numbers 31:36 And the half, the portion of those who had gone out in the army, numbered 337,500 sheep,
Numbers 31:37 and the LORD's tribute of sheep was 675.
Numbers 31:38 The cattle were 36,000, of which the LORD's tribute was 72.
Numbers 31:39 The donkeys were 30,500, of which the LORD's tribute was 61.
Numbers 31:40 The persons were 16,000, of which the LORD's tribute was 32 persons.
Numbers 31:41 And Moses gave the tribute, which was the contribution for the LORD, to Eleazar the priest, as the LORD commanded Moses.
Numbers 31:42 From the people of Israel's half, which Moses separated from that of the men who had served in the army —
Numbers 31:43 now the congregation's half was 337,500 sheep,
Numbers 31:44 36,000 cattle,
Numbers 31:45 and 30,500 donkeys,
Numbers 31:46 and 16,000 persons —
Numbers 31:47  from the people of Israel's half Moses took one of every 50, both of persons and of beasts, and gave them to the Levites who kept guard over the tabernacle of the LORD, as the LORD commanded Moses.
Numbers 31:48 Then the officers who were over the thousands of the army, the commanders of thousands and the commanders of hundreds, came near to Moses
Numbers 31:49 and said to Moses, “Your servants have counted the men of war who are under our command, and there is not a man missing from us.
Numbers 31:50 And we have brought the LORD's offering, what each man found, articles of gold, armlets and bracelets, signet rings, earrings, and beads, to make atonement for ourselves before the LORD.”
Numbers 31:51 And Moses and Eleazar the priest received from them the gold, all crafted articles.
Numbers 31:52 And all the gold of the contribution that they presented to the LORD, from the commanders of thousands and the commanders of hundreds, was 16,750 shekels.
Numbers 31:53  (The men in the army had each taken plunder for himself.)
Numbers 31:54 And Moses and Eleazar the priest received the gold from the commanders of thousands and of hundreds, and brought it into the tent of meeting, as a memorial for the people of Israel before the LORD.
Numbers 32:1 Now the people of Reuben and the people of Gad had a very great number of livestock. And they saw the land of Jazer and the land of Gilead, and behold, the place was a place for livestock.
Numbers 32:2 So the people of Gad and the people of Reuben came and said to Moses and to Eleazar the priest and to the chiefs of the congregation,
Numbers 32:3  Nebo, and Beon,
Numbers 32:4 the land that the LORD struck down before the congregation of Israel, is a land for livestock, and your servants have livestock.”
Numbers 32:5 And they said, “If we have found favor in your sight, let this land be given to your servants for a possession. Do not take us across the Jordan.”
Numbers 32:6 But Moses said to the people of Gad and to the people of Reuben, “Shall your brothers go to the war while you sit here?
Numbers 32:7 Why will you discourage the heart of the people of Israel from going over into the land that the LORD has given them?
Numbers 32:8 Your fathers did this, when I sent them from Kadesh-barnea to see the land.
Numbers 32:9 For when they went up to the Valley of Eshcol and saw the land, they discouraged the heart of the people of Israel from going into the land that the LORD had given them.
Numbers 32:10  And the LORD's anger was kindled on that day, and he swore, saying,
Numbers 32:11 ‘Surely none of the men who came up out of Egypt, to Abraham, to Isaac, and to Jacob, because they have not wholly followed me,
Numbers 32:12 none except Caleb the son of Jephunneh the they have wholly followed the LORD.’
Numbers 32:13 And the LORD's anger was kindled against Israel, and he made them all the generation that had done evil in the sight of the LORD was gone.
Numbers 32:14 And behold, you have risen in your fathers' place, a brood of sinful men, to increase still more the fierce anger of the LORD against Israel!
Numbers 32:15 For if you turn away from following him, he will again abandon them in the wilderness, and you will destroy all this people.”
Numbers 32:16 Then they came near to him and said, “We will build sheepfolds here for our livestock, and cities for our little ones,
Numbers 32:17 but we will take up arms, ready to go before the people of Israel, until we have brought them to their place. And our little ones shall live in the fortified cities because of the inhabitants of the land.
Numbers 32:18  We will not return to our homes until each of the people of Israel has gained his inheritance.
Numbers 32:19 For we will not inherit with them on the other side of the Jordan and beyond, because our inheritance has come to us on this side of the Jordan to the east.”
Numbers 32:20 So Moses said to them, “If you will do this, if you will take up arms to go before the LORD for the war,
Numbers 32:21 and every armed man of you will pass over the Jordan before the LORD, until he has driven out his enemies from before him
Numbers 32:22 and the land is subdued before the LORD; then after that you shall return and be free of obligation to the LORD and to Israel, and this land shall be your possession before the LORD.
Numbers 32:23 But if you will not do so, behold, you have sinned against the LORD, and be sure your sin will find you out.
Numbers 32:24  Build cities for your little ones and folds for your sheep, and do what you have promised.”
Numbers 32:25 And the people of Gad and the people of Reuben said to Moses, “Your servants will do as my lord commands.
Numbers 32:26  Our little ones, our wives, our livestock, and all our cattle shall remain there in the cities of Gilead,
Numbers 32:27  armed for war, before the LORD to battle, as my lord orders.”
Numbers 32:28 So Joshua the son of Nun and to the heads of the fathers' houses of the tribes of the people of Israel.
Numbers 32:29 And Moses said to them, “If the people of Gad and the people of Reuben, every man who is armed to battle before the LORD, will pass with you over the Jordan and the land shall be subdued before you, then you shall give them the land of Gilead for a possession.
Numbers 32:30 However, if they will not pass over with you armed, they shall have possessions among you in the land of Canaan.”
Numbers 32:31 And the people of Gad and the people of Reuben answered, “What the LORD has said to your servants, we will do.
Numbers 32:32 We will pass over armed before the LORD into the land of Canaan, and the possession of our inheritance shall remain with us beyond the Jordan.”
Numbers 32:33 And Moses gave to them, to the people of Gad and to the people of Reuben and to the half-tribe of Manasseh the son of Joseph, the kingdom of Sihon king of the Amorites and the kingdom of Og king of Bashan, the land and its cities with their territories, the cities of the land throughout the country.
Numbers 32:34 And the people of Gad built Aroer,
Numbers 32:35 Atroth-shophan, Jazer, Jogbehah,
Numbers 32:36  fortified cities, and folds for sheep.
Numbers 32:37 And the people of Reuben built Elealeh, Kiriathaim,
Numbers 32:38  Sibmah. And they gave other names to the cities that they built.
Numbers 32:39 And the sons of Machir the son of Manasseh went to Gilead and captured it, and dispossessed the Amorites who were in it.
Numbers 32:40 And Moses gave Gilead to Machir the son of Manasseh, and he settled in it.
Numbers 32:41 And
Numbers 32:42 And Nobah went and captured Kenath and its villages, and called it Nobah, after his own name.
Numbers 33:1 These are the stages of the people of Israel, when they went out of the land of Egypt by their companies under the leadership of Moses and Aaron.
Numbers 33:2 Moses wrote down their starting places, stage by stage, by command of the LORD, and these are their stages according to their starting places.
Numbers 33:3 They triumphantly in the sight of all the Egyptians,
Numbers 33:4 while the Egyptians were burying all their firstborn, On their gods also the LORD executed judgments.
Numbers 33:5 So the people of Israel set out from Rameses and camped at Succoth.
Numbers 33:6 And they set out from Succoth and camped at Etham, which is on the edge of the wilderness.
Numbers 33:7 And they set out from Etham and turned back to Pi-hahiroth, which is east of Baal-zephon, and they camped before Migdol.
Numbers 33:8 And they set out from before Hahiroth went a three days' journey in the wilderness of Etham and camped at Marah.
Numbers 33:9 And they set out from Marah and came to Elim; at Elim there were twelve springs of water and seventy palm trees, and they camped there.
Numbers 33:10 And they set out from Elim and camped by the Red Sea.
Numbers 33:11 And they set out from the Red Sea and camped in the wilderness of Sin.
Numbers 33:12 And they set out from the wilderness of Sin and camped at Dophkah.
Numbers 33:13 And they set out from Dophkah and camped at Alush.
Numbers 33:14 And they set out from Alush and camped at Rephidim, where there was no water for the people to drink.
Numbers 33:15 And they set out from Rephidim and camped in the wilderness of Sinai.
Numbers 33:16 And they set out from the wilderness of Sinai and camped at Kibroth-hattaavah.
Numbers 33:17 And they set out from Kibroth-hattaavah and camped at Hazeroth.
Numbers 33:18 And they set out from Hazeroth and camped at Rithmah.
Numbers 33:19 And they set out from Rithmah and camped at Rimmon-perez.
Numbers 33:20 And they set out from Rimmon-perez and camped at Libnah.
Numbers 33:21 And they set out from Libnah and camped at Rissah.
Numbers 33:22 And they set out from Rissah and camped at Kehelathah.
Numbers 33:23 And they set out from Kehelathah and camped at Mount Shepher.
Numbers 33:24 And they set out from Mount Shepher and camped at Haradah.
Numbers 33:25 And they set out from Haradah and camped at Makheloth.
Numbers 33:26 And they set out from Makheloth and camped at Tahath.
Numbers 33:27 And they set out from Tahath and camped at Terah.
Numbers 33:28 And they set out from Terah and camped at Mithkah.
Numbers 33:29 And they set out from Mithkah and camped at Hashmonah.
Numbers 33:30 And they set out from Hashmonah and camped at Moseroth.
Numbers 33:31 And they set out from Moseroth and camped at Bene-jaakan.
Numbers 33:32 And they set out from Bene-jaakan and camped at Hor-haggidgad.
Numbers 33:33 And they set out from Hor-haggidgad and camped at Jotbathah.
Numbers 33:34 And they set out from Jotbathah and camped at Abronah.
Numbers 33:35 And they set out from Abronah and camped at Ezion-geber.
Numbers 33:36 And they set out from Ezion-geber and camped in the wilderness of Zin (that is, Kadesh).
Numbers 33:37 And they set out from Mount Hor, on the edge of the land of Edom.
Numbers 33:38 And Aaron the priest went up Mount Hor at the command of the LORD and died there, in the fortieth year after the people of Israel had come out of the land of Egypt, on the first day of the fifth month.
Numbers 33:39 And Aaron was 123 years old when he died on Mount Hor.
Numbers 33:40 And the Canaanite, the king of Arad, who lived in the Negeb in the land of Canaan, heard of the coming of the people of Israel.
Numbers 33:41 And they set out from Mount Hor and camped at Zalmonah.
Numbers 33:42 And they set out from Zalmonah and camped at Punon.
Numbers 33:43 And they set out from Punon and camped at Oboth.
Numbers 33:44 And they set out from Oboth and camped at Iye-abarim, in the territory of Moab.
Numbers 33:45 And they set out from Iyim and camped at Dibon-gad.
Numbers 33:46 And they set out from Dibon-gad and camped at Almon-diblathaim.
Numbers 33:47 And they set out from Almon-diblathaim and camped in the mountains of Abarim, before Nebo.
Numbers 33:48 And they set out from the mountains of Abarim and camped in the plains of Moab by the Jordan at Jericho;
Numbers 33:49 they camped by the Jordan from Beth-jeshimoth as far as Abel-shittim in the plains of Moab.
Numbers 33:50 And the LORD spoke to Moses in the plains of Moab by the Jordan at Jericho, saying,
Numbers 33:51 “Speak to the people of Israel and say to them, When you pass over the Jordan into the land of Canaan,
Numbers 33:52 then figured stones and destroy all their metal images and demolish all their high places.
Numbers 33:53 And you shall take possession of the land and settle in it, for I have given the land to you to possess it.
Numbers 33:54  To a large tribe you shall give a large inheritance, and to a small tribe you shall give a small inheritance. Wherever the lot falls for anyone, that shall be his. According to the tribes of your fathers you shall inherit.
Numbers 33:55 But if you do not drive out the inhabitants of the land from before you, then those of them whom you let remain shall be as barbs in your eyes and thorns in your sides, and they shall trouble you in the land where you dwell.
Numbers 33:56 And I will do to you as I thought to do to them.”
Numbers 34:1 The LORD spoke to Moses, saying,
Numbers 34:2 “Command the people of Israel, and say to them, When you enter (this is the land that shall fall to you for an inheritance, the land of Canaan as defined by its borders),
Numbers 34:3  the Salt Sea on the east.
Numbers 34:4 And your border shall turn south of Hazar-addar, and pass along to Azmon.
Numbers 34:5 And the border shall turn the Brook of Egypt, and its limit shall be at the sea.
Numbers 34:6 “For the western border, you shall have the Great Sea and its  coast. This shall be your western border.
Numbers 34:7 “This shall be your northern border: from the Great Sea you shall draw a line to Mount Hor.
Numbers 34:8 From Mount Hor you shall draw a line Zedad.
Numbers 34:9 Then the border shall extend to Ziphron, and its limit shall be at Hazar-enan. This shall be your northern border.
Numbers 34:10 “You shall draw a line for your eastern border from Hazar-enan to Shepham.
Numbers 34:11 And the border shall go down from Shepham to the Sea of Chinnereth on the east.
Numbers 34:12 And the border shall go down to the Jordan, and its limit shall be at the Salt Sea. This shall be your land as defined by its borders all around.”
Numbers 34:13 Moses commanded the people of Israel, saying, “This is the land that you shall inherit by lot, which the LORD has commanded to give to the nine tribes and to the half-tribe.
Numbers 34:14  For the tribe of the people of Reuben by fathers' houses and the tribe of the people of Gad by their fathers' houses have received their inheritance, and also the half-tribe of Manasseh.
Numbers 34:15 The two tribes and the half-tribe have received their inheritance beyond the Jordan east of Jericho, toward the sunrise.”
Numbers 34:16 The LORD spoke to Moses, saying,
Numbers 34:17 “These are the names of the men who shall divide the land to you for inheritance: Eleazar the priest and Joshua the son of Nun.
Numbers 34:18 You shall take one chief from every tribe to divide the land for inheritance.
Numbers 34:19 These are the names of the men: Of the tribe of Judah, Caleb the son of Jephunneh.
Numbers 34:20 Of the tribe of the people of Simeon, Shemuel the son of Ammihud.
Numbers 34:21 Of the tribe of Benjamin, Elidad the son of Chislon.
Numbers 34:22 Of the tribe of the people of Dan a chief, Bukki the son of Jogli.
Numbers 34:23 Of the people of Joseph: of the tribe of the people of Manasseh a chief, Hanniel the son of Ephod.
Numbers 34:24 And of the tribe of the people of Ephraim a chief, Kemuel the son of Shiphtan.
Numbers 34:25 Of the tribe of the people of Zebulun a chief, Elizaphan the son of Parnach.
Numbers 34:26 Of the tribe of the people of Issachar a chief, Paltiel the son of Azzan.
Numbers 34:27 And of the tribe of the people of Asher a chief, Ahihud the son of Shelomi.
Numbers 34:28 Of the tribe of the people of Naphtali a chief, Pedahel the son of Ammihud.”
Numbers 34:29 These are the men whom the LORD commanded to divide the inheritance for the people of Israel in the land of Canaan.
Numbers 35:1 The LORD spoke to Moses in the plains of Moab by the Jordan at Jericho, saying,
Numbers 35:2  “Command the people of Israel to give to the Levites some of the inheritance of their possession as cities for them to dwell in. And you shall give to the Levites pasturelands around the cities.
Numbers 35:3 The cities shall be theirs to dwell in, and their pasturelands shall be for their cattle and for their livestock and for all their beasts.
Numbers 35:4 The pasturelands of the cities, which you shall give to the Levites, shall reach from the wall of the city outward a thousand cubits  all around.
Numbers 35:5 And you shall measure, outside the city, on the east side two thousand cubits, and on the south side two thousand cubits, and on the west side two thousand cubits, and on the north side two thousand cubits, the city being in the middle. This shall belong to them as pastureland for their cities.
Numbers 35:6 “The cities that you give to the Levites shall be the six cities of refuge, where you shall permit the manslayer to flee, and in addition to them you shall give forty-two cities.
Numbers 35:7 All the cities that you give to the Levites shall be forty-eight, with their pasturelands.
Numbers 35:8 And as for the cities that you shall give from the larger tribes you shall take many, and from the smaller tribes you shall take few; each, in proportion to the inheritance that it inherits, shall give of its cities to the Levites.”
Numbers 35:9 And the LORD spoke to Moses, saying,
Numbers 35:10 “Speak to the people of Israel and say to them, When you cross the Jordan into the land of Canaan,
Numbers 35:11  then you shall select cities to be cities of refuge for you, that the manslayer who kills any person without intent may flee there.
Numbers 35:12 The cities shall be for you a refuge from the avenger, that the manslayer may not die until he stands before the congregation for judgment.
Numbers 35:13 And the cities that you give shall be your six cities of refuge.
Numbers 35:14  You shall give three cities beyond the Jordan, and three cities in the land of Canaan, to be cities of refuge.
Numbers 35:15 These six cities shall be for refuge for the people of Israel, and for the stranger and for the sojourner among them, that anyone who kills any person without intent may flee there.
Numbers 35:16  “But if he struck him down with an iron object, so that he died, he is a murderer. The murderer shall be put to death.
Numbers 35:17 And if he struck him down with a stone tool that could cause death, and he died, he is a murderer. The murderer shall be put to death.
Numbers 35:18 Or if he struck him down with a wooden tool that could cause death, and he died, he is a murderer. The murderer shall be put to death.
Numbers 35:19  The avenger of blood shall himself put the murderer to death; when he meets him, he shall put him to death.
Numbers 35:20 And if he pushed him out of hatred or hurled something at him, lying in wait, so that he died,
Numbers 35:21 or in enmity struck him down with his hand, so that he died, then he who struck the blow shall be put to death. He is a murderer. The avenger of blood shall put the murderer to death when he meets him.
Numbers 35:22 “But if he pushed him suddenly without enmity, or hurled anything on him without lying in wait
Numbers 35:23 or used a stone that could cause death, and without seeing him dropped it on him, so that he died, though he was not his enemy and did not seek his harm,
Numbers 35:24 then the avenger of blood, in accordance with these rules.
Numbers 35:25 And the congregation shall rescue the manslayer from the hand of the avenger of blood, and the congregation shall restore him to his city of refuge to which he had fled, and he shall live in it who was anointed with the holy oil.
Numbers 35:26 But if the manslayer shall at any time go beyond the boundaries of his city of refuge to which he fled,
Numbers 35:27 and the avenger of blood finds him outside the boundaries of his city of refuge, and the avenger of blood kills the manslayer, he shall not be guilty of blood.
Numbers 35:28 For he must remain in his city of refuge until the death of the high priest, but after the death of the high priest the manslayer may return to the land of his possession.
Numbers 35:29 And these things shall be for a statute and rule for you throughout your generations in all your dwelling places.
Numbers 35:30 “If anyone kills a person, the murderer shall be put to death on the evidence of witnesses. But no person shall be put to death on the testimony of one witness.
Numbers 35:31 Moreover, you shall accept no ransom for the life of a murderer, who is guilty of death, but he shall be put to death.
Numbers 35:32 And you shall accept no ransom for him who has fled to his city of refuge, that he may return to dwell in the land before the death of the high priest.
Numbers 35:33 You shall not by the blood of the one who shed it.
Numbers 35:34  for I the LORD dwell in the midst of the people of Israel.”
Numbers 36:1 The heads of the fathers' houses of the clan of the people of Gilead the son of Machir, son of Manasseh, from the clans of the people of Joseph, came near and spoke before Moses and before the chiefs, the heads of the fathers' houses of the people of Israel.
Numbers 36:2 They said, my lord was commanded by the LORD to give the inheritance of Zelophehad our brother to his daughters.
Numbers 36:3 But if they are married to any of the sons of the other tribes of the people of Israel, then their inheritance will be taken from the inheritance of our fathers and added to the inheritance of the tribe into which they marry. So it will be taken away from the lot of our inheritance.
Numbers 36:4 And when the jubilee of the people of Israel comes, then their inheritance will be added to the inheritance of the tribe into which they marry, and their inheritance will be taken from the inheritance of the tribe of our fathers.”
Numbers 36:5 And Moses commanded the people of Israel according to the word of the LORD, saying, “The tribe of the people of Joseph is right.
Numbers 36:6 This is what the LORD commands concerning the daughters of Zelophehad: ‘Let them marry whom they think best, only they shall marry within the clan of the tribe of their father.
Numbers 36:7 The inheritance of the people of Israel shall not be transferred from one tribe to another, for every one of the people of Israel shall hold on to the inheritance of the tribe of his fathers.
Numbers 36:8 And every daughter who possesses an inheritance in any tribe of the people of Israel shall be wife to one of the clan of the tribe of her father, so that every one of the people of Israel may possess the inheritance of his fathers.
Numbers 36:9 So no inheritance shall be transferred from one tribe to another, for each of the tribes of the people of Israel shall hold on to its own inheritance.’”
Numbers 36:10 The daughters of Zelophehad did as the LORD commanded Moses,
Numbers 36:11  for Mahlah, Tirzah, Hoglah, Milcah, and Noah, the daughters of Zelophehad, were married to sons of their father's brothers.
Numbers 36:12 They were married into the clans of the people of Manasseh the son of Joseph, and their inheritance remained in the tribe of their father's clan.
Numbers 36:13 These are the commandments and the rules that the LORD commanded through Moses to the people of Israel in the plains of Moab by the Jordan at Jericho.
Deuteronomy 1:1 These are the words that Moses spoke to all Israel beyond the Jordan in the wilderness, in Paran and Tophel, Laban, Hazeroth, and Dizahab.
Deuteronomy 1:2 It is eleven days' journey from Horeb by the way of Mount Seir to Kadesh-barnea.
Deuteronomy 1:3  In the fortieth year, on the first day of the eleventh month, Moses spoke to the people of Israel according to all that the LORD had given him in commandment to them,
Deuteronomy 1:4 after Edrei.
Deuteronomy 1:5 Beyond the Jordan, in the land of Moab, Moses undertook to explain this law, saying,
Deuteronomy 1:6 “The LORD our God said to us in Horeb, ‘You have stayed long enough at this mountain.
Deuteronomy 1:7 Turn and take your journey, and go to by the seacoast, the land of the Canaanites, and Lebanon, as far as the great river, the river Euphrates.
Deuteronomy 1:8 See, I have set the land before you. Go in and take possession of the land that the LORD swore to your fathers, to Abraham, to Isaac, and to Jacob, to give to them and to their offspring after them.’
Deuteronomy 1:9 “At that time I said to you, ‘I am not able to bear you by myself.
Deuteronomy 1:10 The LORD your God has multiplied you, and behold, you are today as numerous as the stars of heaven.
Deuteronomy 1:11  as he has promised you!
Deuteronomy 1:12  How can I bear by myself the weight and burden of you and your strife?
Deuteronomy 1:13  Choose for your tribes wise, understanding, and experienced men, and I will appoint them as your heads.’
Deuteronomy 1:14 And you answered me, ‘The thing that you have spoken is good for us to do.’
Deuteronomy 1:15 So I took the heads of your tribes, wise and experienced men, and set them as heads over you, commanders of thousands, commanders of hundreds, commanders of fifties, commanders of tens, and officers, throughout your tribes.
Deuteronomy 1:16 And I charged your judges at that time, ‘Hear the cases between your brothers, and judge righteously between a man and his brother or the alien who is with him.
Deuteronomy 1:17  bring to me, and I will hear it.’
Deuteronomy 1:18 And I commanded you at that time all the things that you should do.
Deuteronomy 1:19 “Then we set out from Horeb and we came to Kadesh-barnea.
Deuteronomy 1:20 And I said to you, ‘You have come to the hill country of the Amorites, which the LORD our God is giving us.
Deuteronomy 1:21 See, the LORD your God has set the land before you. Go up, take possession, as the LORD, the God of your fathers, has told you. Do not fear or be dismayed.’
Deuteronomy 1:22 Then all of you came near me and said, ‘Let us send men before us, that they may explore the land for us and bring us word again of the way by which we must go up and the cities into which we shall come.’
Deuteronomy 1:23 The thing seemed good to me, and I took twelve men from you, one man from each tribe.
Deuteronomy 1:24 And they turned and went up into the hill country, and came to the Valley of Eshcol and spied it out.
Deuteronomy 1:25 And they took in their hands some of the fruit of the land and brought it down to us, and brought us word again and said, ‘It is a good land that the LORD our God is giving us.’
Deuteronomy 1:26 “Yet you would not go up, but rebelled against the command of the LORD your God.
Deuteronomy 1:27 And to give us into the hand of the Amorites, to destroy us.
Deuteronomy 1:28 Where are we going up? the sons of the Anakim there.”’
Deuteronomy 1:29 Then I said to you, ‘Do not be in dread or afraid of them.
Deuteronomy 1:30 The LORD your God who goes before you will himself fight for you, just as he did for you in Egypt before your eyes,
Deuteronomy 1:31 and in the wilderness, where you have seen how the LORD your God carried you, as a man carries his son, all the way that you went until you came to this place.’
Deuteronomy 1:32 Yet in spite of this word you did not believe the LORD your God,
Deuteronomy 1:33  to seek you out a place to pitch your tents, in fire by night and in the cloud by day, to show you by what way you should go.
Deuteronomy 1:34 “And the LORD heard your words and was angered, and he swore,
Deuteronomy 1:35  ‘Not one of these men of this evil generation shall see the good land that I swore to give to your fathers,
Deuteronomy 1:36  except Caleb the son of Jephunneh. He shall see it, and to him and to his children I will give the land on which he has trodden, because he has wholly followed the LORD!’
Deuteronomy 1:37 Even with me the LORD was angry on your account and said, ‘You also shall not go in there.
Deuteronomy 1:38  Encourage him, for he shall cause Israel to inherit it.
Deuteronomy 1:39 And as for have no knowledge of good or evil, they shall go in there. And to them I will give it, and they shall possess it.
Deuteronomy 1:40 But as for you, turn, and journey into the wilderness in the direction of the Red Sea.’
Deuteronomy 1:41 “Then you answered me, ‘We have sinned against the LORD. We ourselves will go up and fight, just as the LORD our God commanded us.’ And every one of you fastened on his weapons of war and thought it easy to go up into the hill country.
Deuteronomy 1:42 And the LORD said to me, for I am not in your midst, lest you be defeated before your enemies.’
Deuteronomy 1:43 So I spoke to you, and you would not listen; but you rebelled against the command of the LORD and presumptuously went up into the hill country.
Deuteronomy 1:44  Hormah.
Deuteronomy 1:45 And you returned and wept before the LORD, but the LORD did not listen to your voice or give ear to you.
Deuteronomy 1:46 So you remained at Kadesh many days, the days that you remained there.
Deuteronomy 2:1 “Then we turned and journeyed into the wilderness in the direction of the Red Sea, as the LORD told me. And for many days we traveled around Mount Seir.
Deuteronomy 2:2 Then the LORD said to me,
Deuteronomy 2:3 ‘You have been traveling around this mountain country long enough. Turn northward
Deuteronomy 2:4 and command the people, “You are about to pass through the territory of they will be afraid of you. So be very careful.
Deuteronomy 2:5 Do not contend with them, for I will not give you any of their land, no, not so much as for the sole of the foot to tread on, because I have given Mount Seir to Esau as a possession.
Deuteronomy 2:6  You shall purchase food from them with money, that you may eat, and you shall also buy water from them with money, that you may drink.
Deuteronomy 2:7 For the LORD your God has blessed you in all the work of your hands. These forty years the LORD your God has been with you. You have lacked nothing.”’
Deuteronomy 2:8 So Ezion-geber. “And we turned and went in the direction of the wilderness of Moab.
Deuteronomy 2:9 And the LORD said to me, the people of Lot for a possession.’
Deuteronomy 2:10 ( as the Anakim.
Deuteronomy 2:11 Like the Anakim they are also counted as Rephaim, but the Moabites call them Emim.
Deuteronomy 2:12  as Israel did to the land of their possession, which the LORD gave to them.)
Deuteronomy 2:13 ‘Now rise up and go over the brook Zered.
Deuteronomy 2:14 And the time from our leaving until the entire generation, that is, the men of war, had perished from the camp, as the LORD had sworn to them.
Deuteronomy 2:15 For indeed the hand of the LORD was against them, to destroy them from the camp, until they had perished.
Deuteronomy 2:16 “So as soon as all the men of war had perished and were dead from among the people,
Deuteronomy 2:17 the LORD said to me,
Deuteronomy 2:18 ‘Today you are to cross the border of Moab at Ar.
Deuteronomy 2:19 And when you approach the territory of the people of Ammon, the sons of Lot for a possession.’
Deuteronomy 2:20 (It is also counted as a land of Rephaim. Rephaim formerly lived there — but the Ammonites call them Zamzummim —
Deuteronomy 2:21   and they dispossessed them and settled in their place,
Deuteronomy 2:22 as he did for the people of Esau, who live in Seir, when he destroyed the Horites before them and they dispossessed them and settled in their place even to this day.
Deuteronomy 2:23 As for the Caphtorim, who came from Caphtor, destroyed them and settled in their place.)
Deuteronomy 2:24 ‘Rise up, set out on your journey and contend with him in battle.
Deuteronomy 2:25 This day I will begin to put the dread and fear of you on the peoples who are under the whole heaven, who shall hear the report of you and shall tremble and be in anguish because of you.’
Deuteronomy 2:26 “So I sent messengers from the wilderness of with words of peace, saying,
Deuteronomy 2:27  ‘Let me pass through your land. I will go only by the road; I will turn aside neither to the right nor to the left.
Deuteronomy 2:28  You shall sell me food for money, that I may eat, and give me water for money, that I may drink. Only let me pass through on foot,
Deuteronomy 2:29  as the sons of Esau who live in Seir and the Moabites who live in Ar did for me, until I go over the Jordan into the land that the LORD our God is giving to us.’
Deuteronomy 2:30 But hardened his spirit and made his heart obstinate, that he might give him into your hand, as he is this day.
Deuteronomy 2:31 And the LORD said to me, ‘Behold, I have begun to give Sihon and his land over to you. Begin to take possession, that you may occupy his land.’
Deuteronomy 2:32 Then Sihon came out against us, he and all his people, to battle at Jahaz.
Deuteronomy 2:33 And we defeated him and his sons and all his people.
Deuteronomy 2:34 And we captured all his cities at that time and devoted to destruction city, men, women, and children. We left no survivors.
Deuteronomy 2:35 Only the livestock we took as spoil for ourselves, with the plunder of the cities that we captured.
Deuteronomy 2:36  The LORD our God gave all into our hands.
Deuteronomy 2:37 Only to the land of the sons of Ammon you did not draw near, that is, to all the banks of the river Jabbok and the cities of the hill country, whatever the LORD our God had forbidden us.
Deuteronomy 3:1 “Then we turned and went up the way to Bashan. And Edrei.
Deuteronomy 3:2 But the LORD said to me, ‘Do not fear him, for I have given him and all his people and his land into your hand. And you shall do to him as you did to Sihon the king of the Amorites, who lived at Heshbon.’
Deuteronomy 3:3 So the LORD our God gave into our hand Og also, the king of Bashan, and all his people, and we struck him down until he had no survivor left.
Deuteronomy 3:4 And we took all his cities at that time — there was not a city that we did not take from them — sixty cities, the whole region of Argob, the kingdom of Og in Bashan.
Deuteronomy 3:5 All these were cities fortified with high walls, gates, and bars, besides very many unwalled villages.
Deuteronomy 3:6 And city, men, women, and children.
Deuteronomy 3:7 But all the livestock and the spoil of the cities we took as our plunder.
Deuteronomy 3:8 So we took the land at that time out of the hand of the two kings of the Amorites who were beyond the Jordan, from the Valley of the Arnon to Mount Hermon
Deuteronomy 3:9 (the Sidonians call Senir),
Deuteronomy 3:10 all the cities of the Salecah and Edrei, cities of the kingdom of Og in Bashan.
Deuteronomy 3:11 (For )
Deuteronomy 3:12 “When we took possession of this land at that time, I gave to the Reubenites and the Gadites the territory beginning its cities.
Deuteronomy 3:13  Rephaim.
Deuteronomy 3:14  after his own name, Havvoth-jair, as it is to this day.)
Deuteronomy 3:15 To Machir I gave Gilead,
Deuteronomy 3:16 and to the Reubenites the border of the Ammonites;
Deuteronomy 3:17 the Arabah also, with the Jordan as the border, from the slopes of Pisgah on the east.
Deuteronomy 3:18 “And I commanded you at that time, saying, ‘The LORD your God has given you this land to possess. All your men of valor shall cross over armed before your brothers, the people of Israel.
Deuteronomy 3:19 Only your wives, your little ones, and your livestock (I know that you have much livestock) shall remain in the cities that I have given you,
Deuteronomy 3:20  until the LORD gives rest to your brothers, as to you, and they also occupy the land that the LORD your God gives them beyond the Jordan. Then each of you may return to his possession which I have given you.’
Deuteronomy 3:21 And I commanded Joshua at that time, ‘Your eyes have seen all that the LORD your God has done to these two kings. So will the LORD do to all the kingdoms into which you are crossing.
Deuteronomy 3:22 You shall not fear them, for it is the LORD your God who fights for you.’
Deuteronomy 3:23 “And I pleaded with the LORD at that time, saying,
Deuteronomy 3:24 ‘O Lord GOD, you have only begun to show your servant what god is there in heaven or on earth who can do such works and mighty acts as yours?
Deuteronomy 3:25 Please let me go over and see Lebanon.’
Deuteronomy 3:26 But ‘Enough from you; do not speak to me of this matter again.
Deuteronomy 3:27  Go up to the top of Pisgah and lift up your eyes westward and northward and southward and eastward, and look at it with your eyes, for you shall not go over this Jordan.
Deuteronomy 3:28 But charge Joshua, and encourage and strengthen him, for he shall go over at the head of this people, and he shall put them in possession of the land that you shall see.’
Deuteronomy 3:29 So we remained in the valley opposite Beth-peor.
Deuteronomy 4:1 “And now, O Israel, listen to that you may live, and go in and take possession of the land that the LORD, the God of your fathers, is giving you.
Deuteronomy 4:2  You shall not add to the word that I command you, nor take from it, that you may keep the commandments of the LORD your God that I command you.
Deuteronomy 4:3 Your eyes have seen what the LORD did at Baal-peor, for the LORD your God destroyed from among you all the men who followed the Baal of Peor.
Deuteronomy 4:4 But you who held fast to the LORD your God are all alive today.
Deuteronomy 4:5 See, I have taught you statutes and rules, as the LORD my God commanded me, that you should do them in the land that you are entering to take possession of it.
Deuteronomy 4:6  that will be your wisdom and your understanding in the sight of the peoples, who, when they hear all these statutes, will say, ‘Surely this great nation is a wise and understanding people.’
Deuteronomy 4:7 For a god so near to it as the LORD our God is to us, whenever we call upon him?
Deuteronomy 4:8 And what great nation is there, that has statutes and rules so righteous as all this law that I set before you today?
Deuteronomy 4:9  Make them known to your children and your children's children —
Deuteronomy 4:10 how on me all the days that they live on the earth, and that they may teach their children so.’
Deuteronomy 4:11 And the mountain burned with fire to the heart of heaven, wrapped in darkness, cloud, and gloom.
Deuteronomy 4:12 Then there was only a voice.
Deuteronomy 4:13  and he wrote them on two tablets of stone.
Deuteronomy 4:14 And the LORD commanded me at that time to teach you statutes and rules, that you might do them in the land that you are going over to possess.
Deuteronomy 4:15  you saw no form on the day that the LORD spoke to you at Horeb out of the midst of the fire,
Deuteronomy 4:16 beware the likeness of male or female,
Deuteronomy 4:17 the likeness of any animal that is on the earth, the likeness of any winged bird that flies in the air,
Deuteronomy 4:18 the likeness of anything that creeps on the ground, the likeness of any fish that is in the water under the earth.
Deuteronomy 4:19 And beware lest you raise your eyes to heaven, and when you see all the host of heaven, you be drawn away and bow down to them and serve them, things that the LORD your God has allotted to all the peoples under the whole heaven.
Deuteronomy 4:20 But the LORD has taken you and to be a people of his own inheritance, as you are this day.
Deuteronomy 4:21 Furthermore, the LORD was angry with me because of you, and he swore that I should not cross the Jordan, and that I should not enter the good land that the LORD your God is giving you for an inheritance.
Deuteronomy 4:22 For I must die in this land; that good land.
Deuteronomy 4:23  make a carved image, the form of anything that the LORD your God has forbidden you.
Deuteronomy 4:24 For a jealous God.
Deuteronomy 4:25 “When you father children and children's children, and have grown old in the land, by doing what is evil in the sight of the LORD your God, so as to provoke him to anger,
Deuteronomy 4:26 I call heaven and earth to witness against you today, that you will soon utterly perish from the land that you are going over the Jordan to possess. You will not live long in it, but will be utterly destroyed.
Deuteronomy 4:27 And the LORD and you will be left few in number among the nations where the LORD will drive you.
Deuteronomy 4:28 And that neither see, nor hear, nor eat, nor smell.
Deuteronomy 4:29  But from there you will seek the LORD your God and you will find him, if you search after him with all your heart and with all your soul.
Deuteronomy 4:30 When you are in tribulation, and all these things come upon you in the latter days, you will return to the LORD your God and obey his voice.
Deuteronomy 4:31 For the LORD your God is He will not leave you or destroy you or forget the covenant with your fathers that he swore to them.
Deuteronomy 4:32 “For ask now of the days that are past, which were before you, since the day that God created man on the earth, and ask from one end of heaven to the other, whether such a great thing as this has ever happened or was ever heard of.
Deuteronomy 4:33  Did any people ever hear the voice of a god speaking out of the midst of the fire, as you have heard, and still live?
Deuteronomy 4:34 Or has any god ever attempted to go and take a nation for himself from the midst of another nation, by trials, an outstretched arm, and by great deeds of terror, all of which the LORD your God did for you in Egypt before your eyes?
Deuteronomy 4:35 To you it was shown, there is no other besides him.
Deuteronomy 4:36  you heard his words out of the midst of the fire.
Deuteronomy 4:37 And because with his own presence, by his great power,
Deuteronomy 4:38  driving out before you nations greater and mightier than you, to bring you in, to give you their land for an inheritance, as it is this day,
Deuteronomy 4:39 know therefore today, and lay it to your heart, that there is no other.
Deuteronomy 4:40  that it may go well with you and with your children after you, and that you may prolong your days in the land that the LORD your God is giving you for all time.”
Deuteronomy 4:41 Then Moses set apart three cities in the east beyond the Jordan,
Deuteronomy 4:42 that the manslayer might flee there, anyone who kills his neighbor unintentionally, without being at enmity with him in time past; he may flee to one of these cities and save his life:
Deuteronomy 4:43  tableland for the Reubenites, Ramoth in Gilead for the Gadites, and Golan in Bashan for the Manassites.
Deuteronomy 4:44 This is the law that Moses set before the people of Israel.
Deuteronomy 4:45 These are the testimonies, the statutes, and the rules, which Moses spoke to the people of Israel when they came out of Egypt,
Deuteronomy 4:46 beyond the Jordan whom Moses and the people of Israel defeated when they came out of Egypt.
Deuteronomy 4:47 And they took possession of his land and the land of Og, the king of Bashan, the two kings of the Amorites, who lived to the east beyond the Jordan;
Deuteronomy 4:48  Hermon),
Deuteronomy 4:49 together with all the Arabah on the east side of the Jordan as far as the Sea of the Arabah, under the slopes of Pisgah.
Deuteronomy 5:1 And Moses summoned all Israel and said to them, “Hear, O Israel, the statutes and the rules that I speak in your hearing today, and you shall learn them and be careful to do them.
Deuteronomy 5:2  The LORD our God made a covenant with us in Horeb.
Deuteronomy 5:3  Not with our fathers did the LORD make this covenant, but with us, who are all of us here alive today.
Deuteronomy 5:4 The LORD spoke with you face to face at the mountain, out of the midst of the fire,
Deuteronomy 5:5  you were afraid because of the fire, and you did not go up into the mountain. He said:
Deuteronomy 5:6  “‘I am the LORD your God, who brought you out of the land of Egypt, out of the house of slavery.
Deuteronomy 5:7 “‘You shall have no other gods before  me.
Deuteronomy 5:8 “‘You shall not make for yourself a carved image, or any likeness of anything that is in heaven above, or that is on the earth beneath, or that is in the water under the earth.
Deuteronomy 5:9 You shall not bow down to them or serve them; for I the LORD your God am a jealous God, visiting the iniquity of the fathers on the children to the third and fourth generation of those who hate me,
Deuteronomy 5:10 but showing steadfast love to  of those who love me and keep my commandments.
Deuteronomy 5:11 “‘You shall not take the name of the LORD your God in vain, for the LORD will not hold him guiltless who takes his name in vain.
Deuteronomy 5:12 “‘Observe the Sabbath day, to keep it holy, as the LORD your God commanded you.
Deuteronomy 5:13 Six days you shall labor and do all your work,
Deuteronomy 5:14 but that your male servant and your female servant may rest as well as you.
Deuteronomy 5:15  with a mighty hand and an outstretched arm. Therefore the LORD your God commanded you to keep the Sabbath day.
Deuteronomy 5:16 “‘Honor your father and your mother, as the LORD your God commanded you, that your days may be long, and that it may go well with you in the land that the LORD your God is giving you.
Deuteronomy 5:17
Deuteronomy 5:18  “‘And you shall not commit adultery.
Deuteronomy 5:19 “‘And you shall not steal.
Deuteronomy 5:20 “‘And you shall not bear false witness against your neighbor.
Deuteronomy 5:21 “‘And you shall not covet your neighbor's wife. And you shall not desire your neighbor's house, his field, or his male servant, or his female servant, his ox, or his donkey, or anything that is your neighbor's.’
Deuteronomy 5:22 “These words the LORD spoke to all your assembly he wrote them on two tablets of stone and gave them to me.
Deuteronomy 5:23 And as soon as you heard the voice out of the midst of the darkness, while the mountain was burning with fire, you came near to me, all the heads of your tribes, and your elders.
Deuteronomy 5:24 And you said, ‘Behold, the LORD our God has shown us his glory and still live.
Deuteronomy 5:25 Now therefore why should we die? For this great fire will consume us. If we hear the voice of the LORD our God any more, we shall die.
Deuteronomy 5:26  For who is there of all flesh, that has heard the voice of the living God speaking out of the midst of fire as we have, and has still lived?
Deuteronomy 5:27 Go near and hear all that the LORD our God will say, and speak to us all that the LORD our God will speak to you, and we will hear and do it.’
Deuteronomy 5:28 “And the LORD heard your words, when you spoke to me. And the LORD said to me, ‘I have heard the words of this people, which they have spoken to you. They are right in all that they have spoken.
Deuteronomy 5:29   forever!
Deuteronomy 5:30 Go and say to them, “Return to your tents.”
Deuteronomy 5:31 But you, stand here by me, and I will tell you the whole commandment and the statutes and the rules that you shall teach them, that they may do them in the land that I am giving them to possess.’
Deuteronomy 5:32 You shall be careful therefore to do as the LORD your God has commanded you. You shall not turn aside to the right hand or to the left.
Deuteronomy 5:33  that it may go well with you, and that you may live long in the land that you shall possess.
Deuteronomy 6:1 “Now this is  — that the LORD your God commanded me to teach you, that you may do them in the land to which you are going over, to possess it,
Deuteronomy 6:2 that that your days may be long.
Deuteronomy 6:3 Hear therefore, O Israel, and be careful to do them, that it may go well with you, and that you may multiply greatly, as the LORD, the God of your fathers, has promised you, in a land flowing with milk and honey.
Deuteronomy 6:4 “Hear, O Israel:
Deuteronomy 6:5 You shall love the LORD your God with all your heart and with all your soul and with all your might.
Deuteronomy 6:6 And these words that I command you today shall be on your heart.
Deuteronomy 6:7  You shall teach them diligently to your children, and shall talk of them when you sit in your house, and when you walk by the way, and when you lie down, and when you rise.
Deuteronomy 6:8  You shall bind them as a sign on your hand, and they shall be as frontlets between your eyes.
Deuteronomy 6:9  You shall write them on the doorposts of your house and on your gates.
Deuteronomy 6:10 “And when the LORD your God brings you into the land that he swore to your fathers, to Abraham, to Isaac, and to Jacob, to give you — with great and good cities that you did not build,
Deuteronomy 6:11 and houses full of all good things that you did not fill, and cisterns that you did not dig, and vineyards and olive trees that you did not plant — and when you eat and are full,
Deuteronomy 6:12  then take care lest you forget the LORD, who brought you out of the land of Egypt, out of the house of slavery.
Deuteronomy 6:13 It is by his name you shall swear.
Deuteronomy 6:14 You shall not the gods of the peoples who are around you —
Deuteronomy 6:15 for lest the anger of the LORD your God be kindled against you, and he destroy you from off the face of the earth.
Deuteronomy 6:16  as you tested him at Massah.
Deuteronomy 6:17 You shall diligently keep the commandments of the LORD your God, and his testimonies and his statutes, which he has commanded you.
Deuteronomy 6:18  And you shall do what is right and good in the sight of the LORD, that it may go well with you, and that you may go in and take possession of the good land that the LORD swore to give to your fathers
Deuteronomy 6:19  by thrusting out all your enemies from before you, as the LORD has promised.
Deuteronomy 6:20  “When your son asks you in time to come, ‘What is the meaning of the testimonies and the statutes and the rules that the LORD our God has commanded you?’
Deuteronomy 6:21 then you shall say to your son, ‘We were Pharaoh's slaves in Egypt. And the LORD brought us out of Egypt with a mighty hand.
Deuteronomy 6:22 And the LORD showed signs and wonders, great and grievous, against Egypt and against Pharaoh and all his household, before our eyes.
Deuteronomy 6:23 And he brought us out from there, that he might bring us in and give us the land that he swore to give to our fathers.
Deuteronomy 6:24 And the LORD commanded us to do all these statutes, he might preserve us alive, as we are this day.
Deuteronomy 6:25 And it will be righteousness for us, if we are careful to do all this commandment before the LORD our God, as he has commanded us.’
Deuteronomy 7:1 “When the more numerous and mightier than you,
Deuteronomy 7:2  You shall make no covenant with them and show no mercy to them.
Deuteronomy 7:3  You shall not intermarry with them, giving your daughters to their sons or taking their daughters for your sons,
Deuteronomy 7:4 for they would turn away your sons from following me, to serve other gods. quickly.
Deuteronomy 7:5 But thus shall you deal with them: burn their carved images with fire.
Deuteronomy 7:6 “For a people for his treasured possession, out of all the peoples who are on the face of the earth.
Deuteronomy 7:7 It was not because you were more in number than any other people that the LORD set his love on you and chose you, for you were the fewest of all peoples,
Deuteronomy 7:8 but the oath that he swore to your fathers, that the LORD has brought you out with a mighty hand and redeemed you from the house of slavery, from the hand of Pharaoh king of Egypt.
Deuteronomy 7:9 Know therefore that the LORD your God is God, who keeps covenant and steadfast love with those who love him and keep his commandments, to a thousand generations,
Deuteronomy 7:10 and He will not be slack with one who hates him. He will repay him to his face.
Deuteronomy 7:11  You shall therefore be careful to do the commandment and the statutes and the rules that I command you today.
Deuteronomy 7:12  the covenant and the steadfast love that he swore to your fathers.
Deuteronomy 7:13 He will He will also bless the fruit of your womb and the fruit of your ground, your grain and your wine and your oil, the increase of your herds and the young of your flock, in the land that he swore to your fathers to give you.
Deuteronomy 7:14 You shall be blessed above all peoples. There shall not be male or female barren among you or among your livestock.
Deuteronomy 7:15 And the LORD will take away from you all sickness, and none of the evil diseases of Egypt, which you knew, will he inflict on you, but he will lay them on all who hate you.
Deuteronomy 7:16 And a snare to you.
Deuteronomy 7:17 “If you say in your heart, ‘These nations are greater than I. How can I dispossess them?’
Deuteronomy 7:18  remember what the LORD your God did to Pharaoh and to all Egypt,
Deuteronomy 7:19 the great trials that your eyes saw, the signs, the wonders, the mighty hand, and the outstretched arm, by which the LORD your God brought you out. So will the LORD your God do to all the peoples of whom you are afraid.
Deuteronomy 7:20 Moreover, the LORD your God will send hornets among them, until those who are left and hide themselves from you are destroyed.
Deuteronomy 7:21 You shall not be in dread of them, for the LORD your God is a great and awesome God.
Deuteronomy 7:22   lest the wild beasts grow too numerous for you.
Deuteronomy 7:23  But the LORD your God will give them over to you and throw them into great confusion, until they are destroyed.
Deuteronomy 7:24 And No one shall be able to stand against you until you have destroyed them.
Deuteronomy 7:25 The carved images of their gods ensnared by it, for it is an abomination to the LORD your God.
Deuteronomy 7:26 And you shall not bring an abominable thing into your house and become devoted to destruction for it is devoted to destruction.
Deuteronomy 8:1 “The whole commandment that I command you today you shall be careful to do, that you may live and multiply, and go in and possess the land that the LORD swore to give to your fathers.
Deuteronomy 8:2 And you shall remember the whole way that the LORD your God has led you whether you would keep his commandments or not.
Deuteronomy 8:3 And he humbled you and  that comes from the mouth of the LORD.
Deuteronomy 8:4  Your clothing did not wear out on you and your foot did not swell these forty years.
Deuteronomy 8:5 Know then in your heart that, as a man disciplines his son, the LORD your God disciplines you.
Deuteronomy 8:6 So you shall keep the commandments of the LORD your God by walking in his ways and by fearing him.
Deuteronomy 8:7 For the LORD your God is bringing you into a good land, a land of brooks of water, of fountains and springs, flowing out in the valleys and hills,
Deuteronomy 8:8 a land of wheat and barley, of vines and fig trees and pomegranates, a land of olive trees and honey,
Deuteronomy 8:9 a land in which you will eat bread without scarcity, in which you will lack nothing, a land whose stones are iron, and out of whose hills you can dig copper.
Deuteronomy 8:10 And you shall eat and be full, and you shall bless the LORD your God for the good land he has given you.
Deuteronomy 8:11 “Take care lest you forget the LORD your God by not keeping his commandments and his rules and his statutes, which I command you today,
Deuteronomy 8:12  lest, when you have eaten and are full and have built good houses and live in them,
Deuteronomy 8:13 and when your herds and flocks multiply and your silver and gold is multiplied and all that you have is multiplied,
Deuteronomy 8:14  forget the LORD your God, who brought you out of the land of Egypt, out of the house of slavery,
Deuteronomy 8:15 who who brought you water out of the flinty rock,
Deuteronomy 8:16 who fed you in the wilderness with to do you good in the end.
Deuteronomy 8:17 Beware lest you say in your heart, ‘My power and the might of my hand have gotten me this wealth.’
Deuteronomy 8:18 You shall remember the LORD your God, for that he may confirm his covenant that he swore to your fathers, as it is this day.
Deuteronomy 8:19 And if you forget the LORD your God and go after other gods and serve them and worship them, I solemnly warn you today that you shall surely perish.
Deuteronomy 8:20 Like the nations that the LORD makes to perish before you, so shall you perish, because you would not obey the voice of the LORD your God.
Deuteronomy 9:1 “Hear, O Israel: you are greater and mightier than you, cities great and fortified up to heaven,
Deuteronomy 9:2 a people great and tall, whom you know, and of whom you have heard it said, ‘Who can stand before the sons of Anak?’
Deuteronomy 9:3 Know therefore today that he who So you shall drive them out and make them perish quickly, as the LORD has promised you.
Deuteronomy 9:4  because of the wickedness of these nations that the LORD is driving them out before you.
Deuteronomy 9:5  the word that the LORD swore to your fathers, to Abraham, to Isaac, and to Jacob.
Deuteronomy 9:6 “Know, therefore, that the LORD your God is not giving you this good land to possess because of your righteousness, for you are a stubborn people.
Deuteronomy 9:7 Remember and do not forget how you provoked the LORD your God to wrath in the wilderness. From the day you came out of the land of Egypt until you came to this place, you have been rebellious against the LORD.
Deuteronomy 9:8 Even at Horeb you provoked the LORD to wrath, and the LORD was so angry with you that he was ready to destroy you.
Deuteronomy 9:9  forty days and forty nights. I neither ate bread nor drank water.
Deuteronomy 9:10 And on the day of the assembly.
Deuteronomy 9:11 And at the end of forty days and forty nights the LORD gave me the two tablets of stone, the tablets of the covenant.
Deuteronomy 9:12 Then the LORD said to me, turned aside quickly out of the way that I commanded them; they have made themselves a metal image.’
Deuteronomy 9:13  a stubborn people.
Deuteronomy 9:14  I will make of you a nation mightier and greater than they.’
Deuteronomy 9:15  the mountain was burning with fire. And the two tablets of the covenant were in my two hands.
Deuteronomy 9:16 And You had turned aside quickly from the way that the LORD had commanded you.
Deuteronomy 9:17 So I took hold of the two tablets and threw them out of my two hands and broke them before your eyes.
Deuteronomy 9:18 Then I in doing what was evil in the sight of the LORD to provoke him to anger.
Deuteronomy 9:19 For I was afraid of the anger and hot displeasure that the LORD bore against you, so that he was ready to destroy you. But the LORD listened to me that time also.
Deuteronomy 9:20 And the LORD was so angry with Aaron that he was ready to destroy him. And I prayed for Aaron also at the same time.
Deuteronomy 9:21 Then I took the sinful thing, the calf that you had made, and burned it with fire and crushed it, grinding it very small, until it was as fine as dust. And I threw the dust of it into the brook that ran down from the mountain.
Deuteronomy 9:22 “At Kibroth-hattaavah you provoked the LORD to wrath.
Deuteronomy 9:23 And did not believe him or obey his voice.
Deuteronomy 9:24  You have been rebellious against the LORD from the day that I knew you.
Deuteronomy 9:25  “So I lay prostrate before the LORD for these forty days and forty nights, because the LORD had said he would destroy you.
Deuteronomy 9:26  And I prayed to the LORD, ‘O Lord GOD, do not destroy your people and your heritage, whom you have redeemed through your greatness, whom you have brought out of Egypt with a mighty hand.
Deuteronomy 9:27 Remember your servants, Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. Do not regard the stubbornness of this people, or their wickedness or their sin,
Deuteronomy 9:28 lest the land from which you brought us say, “Because the LORD was not able to bring them into the land that he promised them, and because he hated them, he has brought them out to put them to death in the wilderness.”
Deuteronomy 9:29  For they are your people and your heritage, whom you brought out by your great power and by your outstretched arm.’
Deuteronomy 10:1 “At that time the LORD said to me, make an ark of wood.
Deuteronomy 10:2 And I will write on the tablets the words that were on the first tablets that you broke, and you shall put them in the ark.’
Deuteronomy 10:3 So I made an ark cut two tablets of stone like the first, and went up the mountain with the two tablets in my hand.
Deuteronomy 10:4 And on the day of the assembly. And the LORD gave them to me.
Deuteronomy 10:5 Then I turned and And there they are, as the LORD commanded me.”
Deuteronomy 10:6 (The people of Israel There Aaron died, and there he was buried. And his son Eleazar ministered as priest in his place.
Deuteronomy 10:7  From there they journeyed to Gudgodah, and from Gudgodah to Jotbathah, a land with brooks of water.
Deuteronomy 10:8 At that time to bless in his name, to this day.
Deuteronomy 10:9  Therefore Levi has no portion or inheritance with his brothers. The LORD is his inheritance, as the LORD your God said to him.)
Deuteronomy 10:10  and the LORD listened to me that time also. The LORD was unwilling to destroy you.
Deuteronomy 10:11  And the LORD said to me, ‘Arise, go on your journey at the head of the people, so that they may go in and possess the land, which I swore to their fathers to give them.’
Deuteronomy 10:12 “And now, Israel, to love him, to serve the LORD your God with all your heart and with all your soul,
Deuteronomy 10:13 and for your good?
Deuteronomy 10:14 Behold, the earth with all that is in it.
Deuteronomy 10:15 Yet the LORD set his heart in love on your fathers and chose their offspring after them, you above all peoples, as you are this day.
Deuteronomy 10:16 Circumcise therefore stubborn.
Deuteronomy 10:17 For the LORD your God is not partial and takes no bribe.
Deuteronomy 10:18  He executes justice for the fatherless and the widow, and loves the sojourner, giving him food and clothing.
Deuteronomy 10:19  Love the sojourner, therefore, for you were sojourners in the land of Egypt.
Deuteronomy 10:20  by his name you shall swear.
Deuteronomy 10:21  who has done for you these great and terrifying things that your eyes have seen.
Deuteronomy 10:22 Your fathers went down to Egypt as numerous as the stars of heaven.
Deuteronomy 11:1  keep his charge, his statutes, his rules, and his commandments always.
Deuteronomy 11:2 And consider today (since I am not speaking to his mighty hand and his outstretched arm,
Deuteronomy 11:3  his signs and his deeds that he did in Egypt to Pharaoh the king of Egypt and to all his land,
Deuteronomy 11:4 and what he did to the army of Egypt, to their horses and to their chariots, how he made the water of the Red Sea flow over them as they pursued after you, and how the LORD has destroyed them to this day,
Deuteronomy 11:5 and what he did to you in the wilderness, until you came to this place,
Deuteronomy 11:6 and what he did to Dathan and Abiram the sons of Eliab, son of Reuben, how the earth opened its mouth and swallowed them up, with their households, their tents, and every living thing that followed them, in the midst of all Israel.
Deuteronomy 11:7 For your eyes have seen all the great work of the LORD that he did.
Deuteronomy 11:8 “You shall therefore keep the whole commandment that I command you today, that you may be strong, and go in and take possession of the land that you are going over to possess,
Deuteronomy 11:9 and a land flowing with milk and honey.
Deuteronomy 11:10 For the land that you are entering to take possession of it is not like the land of Egypt, from which you have come, where you sowed your seed and irrigated it,  like a garden of vegetables.
Deuteronomy 11:11  But the land that you are going over to possess is a land of hills and valleys, which drinks water by the rain from heaven,
Deuteronomy 11:12 a land that the LORD your God cares for. The eyes of the LORD your God are always upon it, from the beginning of the year to the end of the year.
Deuteronomy 11:13 “And if you will indeed obey my commandments that I command you today, to love the LORD your God, and to serve him with all your heart and with all your soul,
Deuteronomy 11:14  the early rain and the later rain, that you may gather in your grain and your wine and your oil.
Deuteronomy 11:15  you shall eat and be full.
Deuteronomy 11:16 Take care serve other gods and worship them;
Deuteronomy 11:17 then you will perish quickly off the good land that the LORD is giving you.
Deuteronomy 11:18  you shall bind them as a sign on your hand, and they shall be as frontlets between your eyes.
Deuteronomy 11:19 You shall teach them to your children, talking of them when you are sitting in your house, and when you are walking by the way, and when you lie down, and when you rise.
Deuteronomy 11:20  You shall write them on the doorposts of your house and on your gates,
Deuteronomy 11:21  as long as the heavens are above the earth.
Deuteronomy 11:22 For if holding fast to him,
Deuteronomy 11:23 then the LORD dispossess nations greater and mightier than you.
Deuteronomy 11:24   the Lebanon and from the River, the river Euphrates, to the western sea.
Deuteronomy 11:25  as he promised you.
Deuteronomy 11:26  “See, I am setting before you today a blessing and a curse:
Deuteronomy 11:27  the blessing, if you obey the commandments of the LORD your God, which I command you today,
Deuteronomy 11:28 and to go after other gods that you have not known.
Deuteronomy 11:29 And when the LORD your God brings you into the land that you are entering to take possession of it, you shall set the blessing on Mount Gerizim and the curse on Mount Ebal.
Deuteronomy 11:30 Are they not beyond the Jordan, west of the road, toward the going down of the sun, in the land of the Canaanites who live in the  of Moreh?
Deuteronomy 11:31 For you are to cross over the Jordan to go in to take possession of the land that the LORD your God is giving you. And when you possess it and live in it,
Deuteronomy 11:32 you shall be careful to do all the statutes and the rules that I am setting before you today.
Deuteronomy 12:1  all the days that you live on the earth.
Deuteronomy 12:2  on the high mountains and on the hills and under every green tree.
Deuteronomy 12:3 You shall tear down their altars and dash in pieces destroy their name out of that place.
Deuteronomy 12:4  You shall not worship the LORD your God in that way.
Deuteronomy 12:5 But you shall seek  there. There you shall go,
Deuteronomy 12:6 and there you shall bring your burnt offerings and your sacrifices, firstborn of your herd and of your flock.
Deuteronomy 12:7 And you shall rejoice, you and your households, in all that you undertake, in which the LORD your God has blessed you.
Deuteronomy 12:8 “You shall not do according to all that we are doing here today, everyone doing whatever is right in his own eyes,
Deuteronomy 12:9 for you have not as yet come to the rest and to the inheritance that the LORD your God is giving you.
Deuteronomy 12:10 But when and when he gives you rest from all your enemies around, so that you live in safety,
Deuteronomy 12:11 then to your tithes and the contribution that you present, and all your finest vow offerings that you vow to the LORD.
Deuteronomy 12:12 And he has no portion or inheritance with you.
Deuteronomy 12:13  Take care that you do not offer your burnt offerings at any place that you see,
Deuteronomy 12:14 but at the place that the LORD will choose in one of your tribes, there you shall offer your burnt offerings, and there you shall do all that I am commanding you.
Deuteronomy 12:15 “However, you may slaughter and eat meat within any of your towns, as much as you desire, The unclean and the clean may eat of it, as of the gazelle and as of the deer.
Deuteronomy 12:16  Only you shall not eat the blood; you shall pour it out on the earth like water.
Deuteronomy 12:17 You may not eat within your towns the tithe of your grain or of your wine or of your oil, or the firstborn of your herd or of your flock, or any of your vow offerings that you vow, or your freewill offerings or the contribution that you present,
Deuteronomy 12:18 but you shall rejoice before the LORD your God in all that you undertake.
Deuteronomy 12:19  Take care that you do not neglect the Levite as long as you live in your land.
Deuteronomy 12:20 “When the LORD your God as he has promised you, and you say, ‘I will eat meat,’ because you crave meat, you may eat meat whenever you desire.
Deuteronomy 12:21 If then you may kill any of your herd or your flock, which the LORD has given you, as I have commanded you, and you may eat within your towns whenever you desire.
Deuteronomy 12:22 Just The unclean and the clean alike may eat of it.
Deuteronomy 12:23  for the blood is the life, and you shall not eat the life with the flesh.
Deuteronomy 12:24 You shall not eat it; you shall pour it out on the earth like water.
Deuteronomy 12:25 You shall not eat it, when you do what is right in the sight of the LORD.
Deuteronomy 12:26 But the the place that the LORD will choose,
Deuteronomy 12:27 and offer your burnt offerings, the flesh and the blood, on the altar of the LORD your God. The blood of your sacrifices shall be poured out on the altar of the LORD your God, but the flesh you may eat.
Deuteronomy 12:28 Be careful to obey all these words that I command you, that it may go well with you and with your children after you forever, when you do what is good and right in the sight of the LORD your God.
Deuteronomy 12:29 “When the LORD your God cuts off before you the nations whom you go in to dispossess, and you dispossess them and dwell in their land,
Deuteronomy 12:30 take care that you be not ensnared to follow them, after they have been destroyed before you, and that you do not inquire about their gods, saying, ‘How did these nations serve their gods? — that I also may do the same.’
Deuteronomy 12:31  they even burn their sons and their daughters in the fire to their gods.
Deuteronomy 12:32  You shall not add to it or take from it.
Deuteronomy 13:1 “If a prophet or a dreamer of dreams arises among you and gives you a sign or a wonder,
Deuteronomy 13:2 and the sign or wonder that he tells you comes to pass, and if he says, ‘Let us go after other gods,’ which you have not known, ‘and let us serve them,’
Deuteronomy 13:3 you shall not listen to the words of that prophet or that dreamer of dreams. For the LORD your God is testing you, to know whether you love the LORD your God with all your heart and with all your soul.
Deuteronomy 13:4 You shall hold fast to him.
Deuteronomy 13:5 But  from your midst.
Deuteronomy 13:6  which neither you nor your fathers have known,
Deuteronomy 13:7 some of the gods of the peoples who are around you, whether near you or far off from you, from the one end of the earth to the other,
Deuteronomy 13:8 you shall shall your eye pity him, nor shall you spare him, nor shall you conceal him.
Deuteronomy 13:9 But you shall kill him. Your hand shall be first against him to put him to death, and afterward the hand of all the people.
Deuteronomy 13:10  You shall stone him to death with stones, because he sought to draw you away from the LORD your God, who brought you out of the land of Egypt, out of the house of slavery.
Deuteronomy 13:11 And all Israel shall hear and fear and never again do any such wickedness as this among you.
Deuteronomy 13:12 “If you hear in one of your cities, which the LORD your God is giving you to dwell there,
Deuteronomy 13:13 that certain worthless fellows have gone out among you and have drawn away the inhabitants of their city, saying, ‘Let us go and serve other gods,’ which you have not known,
Deuteronomy 13:14 then you shall inquire and make search and ask diligently. And behold, if it be true and certain that such an abomination has been done among you,
Deuteronomy 13:15 you shall surely put the inhabitants of that city to the sword, devoting it to destruction,  all who are in it and its cattle, with the edge of the sword.
Deuteronomy 13:16 You shall gather all its spoil into the midst of its open square and heap forever. It shall not be built again.
Deuteronomy 13:17  as he swore to your fathers,
Deuteronomy 13:18 if you obey the voice of the LORD your God, keeping all his commandments that I am commanding you today, and doing what is right in the sight of the LORD your God.
Deuteronomy 14:1 “You are baldness on your foreheads for the dead.
Deuteronomy 14:2 For you are a people holy to the LORD your God, and the LORD has chosen you to be a people for his treasured possession, out of all the peoples who are on the face of the earth.
Deuteronomy 14:3  “You shall not eat any abomination.
Deuteronomy 14:4  These are the animals you may eat: the ox, the sheep, the goat,
Deuteronomy 14:5 the deer, the gazelle, the roebuck, the wild goat, the ibex,  the antelope, and the mountain sheep.
Deuteronomy 14:6 Every animal that parts the hoof and has the hoof cloven in two and chews the cud, among the animals, you may eat.
Deuteronomy 14:7 Yet of those that chew the cud or have the hoof cloven you shall not eat these: the camel, the hare, and the rock badger, because they chew the cud but do not part the hoof, are unclean for you.
Deuteronomy 14:8 And the pig, because it parts the hoof but does not chew the cud, is unclean for you. Their flesh you shall not eat, and their carcasses you shall not touch.
Deuteronomy 14:9 “Of all that are in the waters you may eat these: whatever has fins and scales you may eat.
Deuteronomy 14:10 And whatever does not have fins and scales you shall not eat; it is unclean for you.
Deuteronomy 14:11 “You may eat all clean birds.
Deuteronomy 14:12 But these are the ones that you shall not eat: the eagle,  the bearded vulture, the black vulture,
Deuteronomy 14:13 the kite, the falcon of any kind;
Deuteronomy 14:14 every raven of any kind;
Deuteronomy 14:15 the ostrich, the nighthawk, the sea gull, the hawk of any kind;
Deuteronomy 14:16 the little owl and the short-eared owl, the barn owl
Deuteronomy 14:17 and the tawny owl, the carrion vulture and the cormorant,
Deuteronomy 14:18 the stork, the heron of any kind; the hoopoe and the bat.
Deuteronomy 14:19 And all winged insects are unclean for you; they shall not be eaten.
Deuteronomy 14:20 All clean winged things you may eat.
Deuteronomy 14:21 “You shall not boil a young goat in its mother's milk.
Deuteronomy 14:22  “You shall tithe all the yield of your seed that comes from the field year by year.
Deuteronomy 14:23 And before the LORD your God, in the place that he will choose, to make his name dwell there, that you may learn to fear the LORD your God always.
Deuteronomy 14:24 And if the way is too long for you, so that you are not able to carry the tithe, when the LORD your God blesses you, because the place is too far from you, which the LORD your God chooses, to set his name there,
Deuteronomy 14:25 then you shall turn it into money and bind up the money in your hand and go to the place that the LORD your God chooses
Deuteronomy 14:26 and spend the money for whatever you desire — oxen or sheep or wine or strong drink, whatever your appetite craves. And you shall eat there before the LORD your God and rejoice, you and your household.
Deuteronomy 14:27 And you shall not neglect he has no portion or inheritance with you.
Deuteronomy 14:28  “At the end of every three years you shall bring out all the tithe of your produce in the same year and lay it up within your towns.
Deuteronomy 14:29 And the Levite, because the LORD your God may bless you in all the work of your hands that you do.
Deuteronomy 15:1 “At the end of every seven years you shall grant a release.
Deuteronomy 15:2 And this is the manner of the release: every creditor shall release what he has lent to his neighbor. He shall not exact it of his neighbor, his brother, because the LORD's release has been proclaimed.
Deuteronomy 15:3  Of a foreigner you may exact it, but whatever of yours is with your brother your hand shall release.
Deuteronomy 15:4  for the LORD will bless you in the land that the LORD your God is giving you for an inheritance to possess —
Deuteronomy 15:5  if only you will strictly obey the voice of the LORD your God, being careful to do all this commandment that I command you today.
Deuteronomy 15:6 For the LORD your God will bless you, you shall rule over many nations, but they shall not rule over you.
Deuteronomy 15:7 “If among you, one of your brothers should become poor, in any of your towns within your land that the LORD your God is giving you, you shall not harden your heart or shut your hand against your poor brother,
Deuteronomy 15:8 but you shall open your hand to him and lend him sufficient for his need, whatever it may be.
Deuteronomy 15:9 Take care lest there be an unworthy thought in your heart and you say, ‘The seventh year, the year of release is near,’ and your you be guilty of sin.
Deuteronomy 15:10 You shall give to him freely, and for this the LORD your God will bless you in all your work and in all that you undertake.
Deuteronomy 15:11 For ‘You shall open wide your hand to your brother, to the needy and to the poor, in your land.’
Deuteronomy 15:12   to you, he shall serve you six years, and in the seventh year you shall let him go free from you.
Deuteronomy 15:13 And when you let him go free from you, you shall not let him go empty-handed.
Deuteronomy 15:14 You shall furnish him liberally out of your flock, out of your threshing floor, and out of your winepress. As the LORD your God has blessed you, you shall give to him.
Deuteronomy 15:15  You shall remember that you were a slave in the land of Egypt, and the LORD your God redeemed you; therefore I command you this today.
Deuteronomy 15:16 But if he says to you, ‘I will not go out from you,’ because he loves you and your household, since he is well-off with you,
Deuteronomy 15:17 then you shall take an awl, and put it through his ear into the door, and he shall be your slave  you shall do the same.
Deuteronomy 15:18 It shall not seem hard to you when you let him go free from you, for at half the cost of a hired worker he has served you six years. So the LORD your God will bless you in all that you do.
Deuteronomy 15:19  “All the firstborn males that are born of your herd and flock you shall dedicate to the LORD your God. You shall do no work with the firstborn of your herd, nor shear the firstborn of your flock.
Deuteronomy 15:20  You shall eat it, you and your household, before the LORD your God year by year at the place that the LORD will choose.
Deuteronomy 15:21  But if it has any blemish, if it is lame or blind or has any serious blemish whatever, you shall not sacrifice it to the LORD your God.
Deuteronomy 15:22 You shall eat it within your towns. The unclean and the clean alike may eat it, as though it were a gazelle or a deer.
Deuteronomy 15:23  Only you shall not eat its blood; you shall pour it out on the ground like water.
Deuteronomy 16:1 “Observe the in the month of Abib the LORD your God brought you out of Egypt by night.
Deuteronomy 16:2 And you shall offer the Passover sacrifice to the LORD your God, from the flock or at the place that the LORD will choose, to make his name dwell there.
Deuteronomy 16:3 You shall eat no leavened bread with it. in haste — that all the days of your life you may remember the day when you came out of the land of Egypt.
Deuteronomy 16:4  nor shall any of the flesh that you sacrifice on the evening of the first day remain all night until morning.
Deuteronomy 16:5 You may not offer the Passover sacrifice within any of your towns that the LORD your God is giving you,
Deuteronomy 16:6 but at the place that the LORD your God will choose, to make his name dwell in it, there you shall offer the Passover sacrifice, in the evening at sunset, at the time you came out of Egypt.
Deuteronomy 16:7 And you shall cook it and eat it at the place that the LORD your God will choose. And in the morning you shall turn and go to your tents.
Deuteronomy 16:8 For a solemn assembly to the LORD your God. You shall do no work on it.
Deuteronomy 16:9  “You shall count seven weeks. Begin to count the seven weeks from the time the sickle is first put to the standing grain.
Deuteronomy 16:10 Then you shall keep as the LORD your God blesses you.
Deuteronomy 16:11 And you shall rejoice before the LORD your God, you and your son and your daughter, your male servant and your female servant, the Levite who is within your towns, the sojourner, the fatherless, and the widow who are among you, at the place that the LORD your God will choose, to make his name dwell there.
Deuteronomy 16:12  You shall remember that you were a slave in Egypt; and you shall be careful to observe these statutes.
Deuteronomy 16:13  “You shall keep the Feast of Booths seven days, when you have gathered in the produce from your threshing floor and your winepress.
Deuteronomy 16:14  You shall rejoice in your feast, you and your son and your daughter, your male servant and your female servant, the Levite, the sojourner, the fatherless, and the widow who are within your towns.
Deuteronomy 16:15 For seven days you shall keep the feast to the LORD your God at the place that the LORD will choose, because the LORD your God will bless you in all your produce and in all the work of your hands, so that you will be altogether joyful.
Deuteronomy 16:16  They shall not appear before the LORD empty-handed.
Deuteronomy 16:17 Every man according to the blessing of the LORD your God that he has given you.
Deuteronomy 16:18 “You shall appoint judges and officers in all your towns that the LORD your God is giving you, according to your tribes, and they shall judge the people with righteous judgment.
Deuteronomy 16:19  and you shall not accept a bribe, for a bribe blinds the eyes of the wise and subverts the cause of the righteous.
Deuteronomy 16:20 Justice, and only justice, you shall follow, that you may live and inherit the land that the LORD your God is giving you.
Deuteronomy 16:21 “You shall not plant any tree as an Asherah beside the altar of the LORD your God that you shall make.
Deuteronomy 16:22 And you shall not set up a pillar, which the LORD your God hates.
Deuteronomy 17:1  “You shall not sacrifice to the LORD your God an ox or a sheep in which is a blemish, any defect whatever, for that is an abomination to the LORD your God.
Deuteronomy 17:2  in transgressing his covenant,
Deuteronomy 17:3 and has gone and served other gods and worshiped them, or which I have forbidden,
Deuteronomy 17:4 and it is told you and you hear of it, then you shall inquire diligently, and if it is true and certain that such an abomination has been done in Israel,
Deuteronomy 17:5 then you shall bring out to your gates that man or woman who has done this evil thing, and you shall stone that man or woman to death with stones.
Deuteronomy 17:6  On the evidence of two witnesses or of three witnesses the one who is to die shall be put to death; a person shall not be put to death on the evidence of one witness.
Deuteronomy 17:7   from your midst.
Deuteronomy 17:8 “If any case arises requiring decision between one kind of homicide and another, one kind of legal right and another, or one kind of assault and another, any case within your towns that is too difficult for you, then you shall arise and go up to the place that the LORD your God will choose.
Deuteronomy 17:9  they shall declare to you the decision.
Deuteronomy 17:10 Then you shall do according to what they declare to you from that place that the LORD will choose. And you shall be careful to do according to all that they direct you.
Deuteronomy 17:11 According to the instructions that they give you, and according to the decision which they pronounce to you, you shall do. You shall not turn aside from the verdict that they declare to you, either to the right hand or to the left.
Deuteronomy 17:12 The man who you shall purge the evil from Israel.
Deuteronomy 17:13 And all the people shall hear and fear and not act presumptuously again.
Deuteronomy 17:14 “When you come to the land that the LORD your God is giving you, and you possess it and dwell in it and then say, ‘I will set a king over me, like all the nations that are around me,’
Deuteronomy 17:15 you may indeed set a king over you from among your brothers you shall set as king over you. You may not put a foreigner over you, who is not your brother.
Deuteronomy 17:16 Only he must not acquire many ‘You shall never return that way again.’
Deuteronomy 17:17 And he nor shall he acquire for himself excessive silver and gold.
Deuteronomy 17:18 “And when he sits on the throne of his kingdom,  the Levitical priests.
Deuteronomy 17:19 And that he may learn to fear the LORD his God by keeping all the words of this law and these statutes, and doing them,
Deuteronomy 17:20 that his heart may not be lifted up above his brothers, and that he so that he may continue long in his kingdom, he and his children, in Israel.
Deuteronomy 18:1 “The Levitical priests, all the tribe of Levi,  inheritance.
Deuteronomy 18:2 They shall have no inheritance among their brothers; the LORD is their inheritance, as he promised them.
Deuteronomy 18:3 And this shall be the priests' due from the people, from those offering a sacrifice, whether an ox or a sheep: they shall give to the priest the shoulder and the two cheeks and the stomach.
Deuteronomy 18:4  The firstfruits of your grain, of your wine and of your oil, and the first fleece of your sheep, you shall give him.
Deuteronomy 18:5 For the LORD your God has chosen him out of all your tribes to stand and minister in the name of the LORD, him and his sons for all time.
Deuteronomy 18:6 “And if a Levite comes from any of your towns out of all Israel, to the place that the LORD will choose,
Deuteronomy 18:7 and ministers in the name of the LORD his God, like all his fellow Levites who stand to minister there before the LORD,
Deuteronomy 18:8 then he may have equal
Deuteronomy 18:9 “When you come into the land that the LORD your God is giving you, you shall not learn to follow the abominable practices of those nations.
Deuteronomy 18:10 There shall not be found among you anyone a sorcerer
Deuteronomy 18:11 or a charmer or one who inquires of the dead,
Deuteronomy 18:12  because of these abominations the LORD your God is driving them out before you.
Deuteronomy 18:13 You shall be blameless before the LORD your God,
Deuteronomy 18:14 for these nations, which you are about to dispossess, listen to fortune-tellers and to diviners. But as for you, the LORD your God has not allowed you to do this.
Deuteronomy 18:15  “The LORD your God will raise up for you a prophet like me from among you, from your brothers — it is to him you shall listen —
Deuteronomy 18:16 just as you desired of the LORD your God at Horeb ‘Let me not hear again the voice of the LORD my God or see this great fire any more, lest I die.’
Deuteronomy 18:17 And the LORD said to me, ‘They are right in what they have spoken.
Deuteronomy 18:18  he shall speak to them all that I command him.
Deuteronomy 18:19  not listen to my words that he shall speak in my name, I myself will require it of him.
Deuteronomy 18:20   who speaks in the name of other gods, that same prophet shall die.’
Deuteronomy 18:21 And if you say in your heart, ‘How may we know the word that the LORD has not spoken?’ —
Deuteronomy 18:22  the prophet has spoken it presumptuously. You need not be afraid of him.
Deuteronomy 19:1 “When the LORD your God cuts off the nations whose land the LORD your God is giving you, and you dispossess them and dwell in their cities and in their houses,
Deuteronomy 19:2  you shall set apart three cities for yourselves in the land that the LORD your God is giving you to possess.
Deuteronomy 19:3 You shall measure the distances  and divide into three parts the area of the land that the LORD your God gives you as a possession, so that any manslayer can flee to them.
Deuteronomy 19:4 “This is the provision for the manslayer, who by fleeing there may save his life. If anyone kills his neighbor unintentionally without having hated him in the past —
Deuteronomy 19:5 as when someone goes into the forest with his neighbor to cut wood, and his hand swings the axe to cut down a tree, and the head slips from the handle and strikes his neighbor so that he dies — he may flee to one of these cities and live,
Deuteronomy 19:6 lest the avenger of blood in hot anger pursue the manslayer and overtake him, because the way is long, and strike him fatally, though the man did not deserve to die, since he had not hated his neighbor in the past.
Deuteronomy 19:7 Therefore I command you, You shall set apart three cities.
Deuteronomy 19:8  gives you all the land that he promised to give to your fathers —
Deuteronomy 19:9 provided you are careful to keep all this commandment, which I command you today, by loving the LORD your God and by walking ever in his ways — then you shall add three other cities to these three,
Deuteronomy 19:10 lest innocent blood be shed in your land that the LORD your God is giving you for an inheritance, and so the guilt of bloodshed be upon you.
Deuteronomy 19:11 “But if anyone hates his neighbor and lies in wait for him and attacks him and strikes him fatally so that he dies, and he flees into one of these cities,
Deuteronomy 19:12 then the elders of his city shall send and take him from there, and hand him over to the avenger of blood, so that he may die.
Deuteronomy 19:13   from Israel, so that it may be well with you.
Deuteronomy 19:14  “You shall not move your neighbor's landmark, which the men of old have set, in the inheritance that you will hold in the land that the LORD your God is giving you to possess.
Deuteronomy 19:15 “A single witness shall not suffice against a person for any crime or for any wrong in connection with any offense that he has committed. Only on the evidence of two witnesses or of three witnesses shall a charge be established.
Deuteronomy 19:16 If a malicious witness arises to accuse a person of wrongdoing,
Deuteronomy 19:17 then both parties to the dispute shall appear before the LORD, before the priests and the judges who are in office in those days.
Deuteronomy 19:18 The judges shall inquire diligently, and if the witness is a false witness and has accused his brother falsely,
Deuteronomy 19:19   from your midst.
Deuteronomy 19:20 And the rest shall hear and fear, and shall never again commit any such evil among you.
Deuteronomy 19:21  It shall be life for life, eye for eye, tooth for tooth, hand for hand, foot for foot.
Deuteronomy 20:1 “When you go out to war against your enemies, and see with you, who brought you up out of the land of Egypt.
Deuteronomy 20:2 And when you draw near to the battle, the priest shall come forward and speak to the people
Deuteronomy 20:3 and shall say to them, ‘Hear, O Israel, today you are drawing near for battle against your enemies: let not your heart faint. Do not fear or panic or be in dread of them,
Deuteronomy 20:4 for the LORD your God is he who goes with you to fight for you against your enemies, to give you the victory.’
Deuteronomy 20:5 Then the officers shall speak to the people, saying, ‘Is there any man who has built a new house and has not dedicated it? Let him go back to his house, lest he die in the battle and another man dedicate it.
Deuteronomy 20:6 And is there any man who has planted a vineyard and has not enjoyed its fruit? Let him go back to his house, lest he die in the battle and another man enjoy its fruit.
Deuteronomy 20:7  And is there any man who has betrothed a wife and has not taken her? Let him go back to his house, lest he die in the battle and another man take her.’
Deuteronomy 20:8 And the officers shall speak further to the people, and say, ‘Is there any man who is fearful and fainthearted? Let him go back to his house, lest he make the heart of his fellows melt like his own.’
Deuteronomy 20:9 And when the officers have finished speaking to the people, then commanders shall be appointed at the head of the people.
Deuteronomy 20:10 “When you draw near to a city to fight against it, offer terms of peace to it.
Deuteronomy 20:11 And if it responds to you peaceably and it opens to you, then all the people who are found in it shall do forced labor for you and shall serve you.
Deuteronomy 20:12 But if it makes no peace with you, but makes war against you, then you shall besiege it.
Deuteronomy 20:13 And when the LORD your God gives it into your hand, you shall put all its males to the sword,
Deuteronomy 20:14  you shall enjoy the spoil of your enemies, which the LORD your God has given you.
Deuteronomy 20:15 Thus you shall do to all the cities that are very far from you, which are not cities of the nations here.
Deuteronomy 20:16 But in the cities of these peoples that the LORD your God is giving you for an inheritance, you shall save alive nothing that breathes,
Deuteronomy 20:17 but  the Hittites and the Amorites, the Canaanites and the Perizzites, the Hivites and the Jebusites, as the LORD your God has commanded,
Deuteronomy 20:18 that sin against the LORD your God.
Deuteronomy 20:19 “When you besiege a city for a long time, making war against it in order to take it, you shall not destroy its trees by wielding an axe against them. You may eat from them, but you shall not cut them down. Are the trees in the field human, that they should be besieged by you?
Deuteronomy 20:20 Only the trees that you know are not trees for food you may destroy and cut down, that you may build siegeworks against the city that makes war with you, until it falls.
Deuteronomy 21:1 “If in the land that the LORD your God is giving you to possess someone is found slain, lying in the open country, and it is not known who killed him,
Deuteronomy 21:2 then your elders and your judges shall come out, and they shall measure the distance to the surrounding cities.
Deuteronomy 21:3 And the elders of the city that is nearest to the slain man shall take a heifer that has never been worked and that has not pulled in a yoke.
Deuteronomy 21:4 And the elders of that city shall bring the heifer down to a valley with running water, which is neither plowed nor sown, and shall break the heifer's neck there in the valley.
Deuteronomy 21:5 Then the priests, the sons of Levi, shall come forward, for the LORD your God has chosen by their word every dispute and every assault shall be settled.
Deuteronomy 21:6 And all the elders of that city nearest to the slain man shall wash their hands over the heifer whose neck was broken in the valley,
Deuteronomy 21:7 and they shall testify, ‘Our hands did not shed this blood, nor did our eyes see it shed.
Deuteronomy 21:8 Accept atonement, O LORD, for your people Israel, whom you have redeemed, and do not set the guilt of innocent blood in the midst of your people Israel, so that their blood guilt be atoned for.’
Deuteronomy 21:9 So you shall purge the guilt of innocent blood from your midst, when you do what is right in the sight of the LORD.
Deuteronomy 21:10 “When you go out to war against your enemies, and the LORD your God gives them into your hand and you take them captive,
Deuteronomy 21:11 and you see among the captives a beautiful woman, and you desire to take her to be your wife,
Deuteronomy 21:12 and you bring her home to your house, she shall shave her head and pare her nails.
Deuteronomy 21:13 And she shall take off the clothes in which she was captured and shall remain in your house and lament her father and her mother a full month. After that you may go in to her and be her husband, and she shall be your wife.
Deuteronomy 21:14 But if you no longer delight in her, you shall treat her as a slave, since you have humiliated her.
Deuteronomy 21:15 “If a man has two wives,
Deuteronomy 21:16 then on the day when he assigns his possessions as an inheritance to his sons, he may not treat the son of the loved as the firstborn in preference to the son of the unloved, who is the firstborn,
Deuteronomy 21:17 but he shall acknowledge the firstborn, the son of the unloved, by giving him a double portion of all that he has, for he is The right of the firstborn is his.
Deuteronomy 21:18 “If a man has a stubborn and rebellious son who will not obey the voice of his father or the voice of his mother, and, though they discipline him, will not listen to them,
Deuteronomy 21:19 then his father and his mother shall take hold of him and bring him out to the elders of his city at the gate of the place where he lives,
Deuteronomy 21:20 and they shall say to the elders of his city, ‘This our son is stubborn and rebellious; he will not obey our voice; he is a glutton and a drunkard.’
Deuteronomy 21:21  and all Israel shall hear, and fear.
Deuteronomy 21:22 “And if a man has committed a crime punishable by death and he is put to death, and you hang him on a tree,
Deuteronomy 21:23  You shall not defile your land that the LORD your God is giving you for an inheritance.
Deuteronomy 22:1 “You shall not see your brother's ox or his sheep going astray and ignore them. You shall take them back to your brother.
Deuteronomy 22:2 And if he does not live near you and you do not know who he is, you shall bring it home to your house, and it shall stay with you until your brother seeks it. Then you shall restore it to him.
Deuteronomy 22:3 And you shall do the same with his donkey or with his garment, or with any lost thing of your brother's, which he loses and you find; you may not ignore it.
Deuteronomy 22:4  You shall not see your brother's donkey or his ox fallen down by the way and ignore them. You shall help him to lift them up again.
Deuteronomy 22:5 “A woman shall not wear a man's garment, nor shall a man put on a woman's cloak, for whoever does these things is an abomination to the LORD your God.
Deuteronomy 22:6 “If you come across a bird's nest in any tree or on the ground, with young ones or eggs and the mother sitting on the young or on the eggs, you shall not take the mother with the young.
Deuteronomy 22:7 You shall let the mother go, but the young you may take for yourself, that it may go well with you, and that you may live long.
Deuteronomy 22:8 “When you build a new house, you shall make a parapet for your roof, that you may not bring the guilt of blood upon your house, if anyone should fall from it.
Deuteronomy 22:9   the crop that you have sown and the yield of the vineyard.
Deuteronomy 22:10 You shall not plow with an ox and a donkey together.
Deuteronomy 22:11 You shall not wear cloth of wool and linen mixed together.
Deuteronomy 22:12  “You shall make yourself tassels on the four corners of the garment with which you cover yourself.
Deuteronomy 22:13 “If any man takes a wife and goes in to her and then hates her
Deuteronomy 22:14 and accuses her of misconduct and brings a bad name upon her, saying, ‘I took this woman, and when I came near her, I did not find in her evidence of virginity,’
Deuteronomy 22:15 then the father of the young woman and her mother shall take and bring out the evidence of her virginity to the elders of the city in the gate.
Deuteronomy 22:16 And the father of the young woman shall say to the elders, ‘I gave my daughter to this man to marry, and he hates her;
Deuteronomy 22:17 and behold, he has accused her of misconduct, saying, “I did not find in your daughter evidence of virginity.” And yet this is the evidence of my daughter's virginity.’ And they shall spread the cloak before the elders of the city.
Deuteronomy 22:18 Then the elders of that city shall take the man and whip  him,
Deuteronomy 22:19 and they shall fine him a hundred shekels He may not divorce her all his days.
Deuteronomy 22:20 But if the thing is true, that evidence of virginity was not found in the young woman,
Deuteronomy 22:21 then they shall bring out the young woman to the door of her father's house, and So you shall purge the evil from your midst.
Deuteronomy 22:22  So you shall purge the evil from Israel.
Deuteronomy 22:23 “If there is a betrothed virgin, and a man meets her in the city and lies with her,
Deuteronomy 22:24 then you shall bring them both out to the gate of that city, and you shall stone them to death with stones, the young woman because she did not cry for help though she was in the city, and the man because he violated his neighbor's wife. So you shall purge the evil from your midst.
Deuteronomy 22:25 “But if in the open country a man meets a young woman who is betrothed, and the man seizes her and lies with her, then only the man who lay with her shall die.
Deuteronomy 22:26 But you shall do nothing to the young woman; she has committed no offense punishable by death. For this case is like that of a man attacking and murdering his neighbor,
Deuteronomy 22:27 because he met her in the open country, and though the betrothed young woman cried for help there was no one to rescue her.
Deuteronomy 22:28  “If a man meets a virgin who is not betrothed, and seizes her and lies with her, and they are found,
Deuteronomy 22:29 then the man who lay with her shall give to the father of the young woman fifty shekels of silver, and she shall be his wife, because he has violated her. He may not divorce her all his days.
Deuteronomy 22:30
Deuteronomy 23:1 “No one whose testicles are crushed or whose male organ is cut off shall enter the assembly of the LORD.
Deuteronomy 23:2  “No one born of a forbidden union may enter the assembly of the LORD. Even to the tenth generation, none of his descendants may enter the assembly of the LORD.
Deuteronomy 23:3  “No Ammonite or Moabite may enter the assembly of the LORD. Even to the tenth generation, none of them may enter the assembly of the LORD forever,
Deuteronomy 23:4  Mesopotamia, to curse you.
Deuteronomy 23:5 But the LORD your God would not listen to Balaam; instead the LORD your God turned the curse into a blessing for you, because the LORD your God loved you.
Deuteronomy 23:6 You shall not seek their peace or their prosperity all your days forever.
Deuteronomy 23:7 “You shall not abhor an Edomite, for you were a sojourner in his land.
Deuteronomy 23:8 Children born to them in the third generation may enter the assembly of the LORD.
Deuteronomy 23:9 “When you are encamped against your enemies, then you shall keep yourself from every evil thing.
Deuteronomy 23:10 “If any man among you becomes unclean because of a nocturnal emission, then he shall go outside the camp. He shall not come inside the camp,
Deuteronomy 23:11 but when evening comes, he shall bathe himself in water, and as the sun sets, he may come inside the camp.
Deuteronomy 23:12 “You shall have a place outside the camp, and you shall go out to it.
Deuteronomy 23:13 And you shall have a trowel with your tools, and when you sit down outside, you shall dig a hole with it and turn back and cover up your excrement.
Deuteronomy 23:14 Because the LORD your God walks in the midst of your camp, to deliver you and to give up your enemies before you, therefore your camp must be holy, so that he may not see anything indecent among you and turn away from you.
Deuteronomy 23:15   who has escaped from his master to you.
Deuteronomy 23:16 He shall dwell with you, in your midst, in the place that he shall choose within one of your towns, wherever it suits him. You shall not wrong him.
Deuteronomy 23:17 “None of the of the sons of Israel shall be a cult prostitute.
Deuteronomy 23:18 You shall not bring the fee of a prostitute or the wages of a dog  into the house of the LORD your God in payment for any vow, for both of these are an abomination to the LORD your God.
Deuteronomy 23:19  interest on money, interest on food, interest on anything that is lent for interest.
Deuteronomy 23:20  that the LORD your God may bless you in all that you undertake in the land that you are entering to take possession of it.
Deuteronomy 23:21  “If you make a vow to the LORD your God, you shall not delay fulfilling it, for the LORD your God will surely require it of you, and you will be guilty of sin.
Deuteronomy 23:22 But if you refrain from vowing, you will not be guilty of sin.
Deuteronomy 23:23 You shall be careful to do what has passed your lips, for you have voluntarily vowed to the LORD your God what you have promised with your mouth.
Deuteronomy 23:24 “If you go into your neighbor's vineyard, you may eat your fill of grapes, as many as you wish, but you shall not put any in your bag.
Deuteronomy 23:25 If you go into your neighbor's standing grain, you may pluck the ears with your hand, but you shall not put a sickle to your neighbor's standing grain.
Deuteronomy 24:1 “When a man takes a wife and marries her, if then she finds no favor in his eyes because he has found some indecency in her, and he writes her a certificate of divorce and puts it in her hand and sends her out of his house, and she departs out of his house,
Deuteronomy 24:2 and if she goes and becomes another man's wife,
Deuteronomy 24:3 and the latter man hates her and writes her a certificate of divorce and puts it in her hand and sends her out of his house, or if the latter man dies, who took her to be his wife,
Deuteronomy 24:4 then her former husband, who sent her away, may not take her again to be his wife, after she has been defiled, for that is an abomination before the LORD. And you shall not bring sin upon the land that the LORD your God is giving you for an inheritance.
Deuteronomy 24:5   whom he has taken.
Deuteronomy 24:6 “No one shall take a mill or an upper millstone in pledge, for that would be taking a life in pledge.
Deuteronomy 24:7  So you shall purge the evil from your midst.
Deuteronomy 24:8 “Take care, in  disease, to be very careful to do according to all that the Levitical priests shall direct you. As I commanded them, so you shall be careful to do.
Deuteronomy 24:9 Remember what the LORD your God did to on the way as you came out of Egypt.
Deuteronomy 24:10 “When you make your neighbor a loan of any sort, you shall not go into his house to collect his pledge.
Deuteronomy 24:11 You shall stand outside, and the man to whom you make the loan shall bring the pledge out to you.
Deuteronomy 24:12 And if he is a poor man, you shall not sleep in his pledge.
Deuteronomy 24:13  it shall be righteousness for you before the LORD your God.
Deuteronomy 24:14 “You shall not oppress a hired worker who is poor and needy, whether he is one of your brothers or one of the sojourners who are in your land within your towns.
Deuteronomy 24:15  lest he cry against you to the LORD, and you be guilty of sin.
Deuteronomy 24:16  “Fathers shall not be put to death because of their children, nor shall children be put to death because of their fathers. Each one shall be put to death for his own sin.
Deuteronomy 24:17  or take a widow's garment in pledge,
Deuteronomy 24:18 but you shall remember that you were a slave in Egypt and the LORD your God redeemed you from there; therefore I command you to do this.
Deuteronomy 24:19  that the LORD your God may bless you in all the work of your hands.
Deuteronomy 24:20 When you beat your olive trees, you shall not go over them again. It shall be for the sojourner, the fatherless, and the widow.
Deuteronomy 24:21 When you gather the grapes of your vineyard, you shall not strip it afterward. It shall be for the sojourner, the fatherless, and the widow.
Deuteronomy 24:22  You shall remember that you were a slave in the land of Egypt; therefore I command you to do this.
Deuteronomy 25:1 “If there is a acquitting the innocent and condemning the guilty,
Deuteronomy 25:2 then if the guilty man deserves to be beaten, the judge shall cause him to lie down and be beaten in his presence with a number of stripes in proportion to his offense.
Deuteronomy 25:3  Forty stripes may be given him, but not more, lest, if one should go on to beat him with more stripes than these, your brother be degraded in your sight.
Deuteronomy 25:4  “You shall not muzzle an ox when it is treading out the grain.
Deuteronomy 25:5  husband's brother shall go in to her and take her as his wife and perform the duty of a husband's brother to her.
Deuteronomy 25:6 And the first son whom she bears shall succeed to the name of his dead brother, that his name may not be blotted out of Israel.
Deuteronomy 25:7 And if the man does not wish to take his brother's wife, then his brother's wife shall go up to the gate to the elders and say, ‘My husband's brother refuses to perpetuate his brother's name in Israel; he will not perform the duty of a husband's brother to me.’
Deuteronomy 25:8 Then the elders of his city shall call him and speak to him, and if he persists, saying, ‘I do not wish to take her,’
Deuteronomy 25:9 then his brother's wife shall go up to him in the presence of the elders and build up his brother's house.’
Deuteronomy 25:10 And the name of his house  shall be called in Israel, ‘The house of him who had his sandal pulled off.’
Deuteronomy 25:11 “When men fight with one another and the wife of the one draws near to rescue her husband from the hand of him who is beating him and puts out her hand and seizes him by the private parts,
Deuteronomy 25:12 then you shall cut off her hand. Your eye shall have no pity.
Deuteronomy 25:13 “You shall not have in your bag two kinds of weights, a large and a small.
Deuteronomy 25:14 You shall not have in your house two kinds of measures, a large and a small.
Deuteronomy 25:15 A full and fair that your days may be long in the land that the LORD your God is giving you.
Deuteronomy 25:16 For are an abomination to the LORD your God.
Deuteronomy 25:17  on the way as you came out of Egypt,
Deuteronomy 25:18 how he attacked you on the way when you were faint and weary, and cut off your tail, those who were lagging behind you, and he did not fear God.
Deuteronomy 25:19 Therefore blot out the memory of Amalek from under heaven; you shall not forget.
Deuteronomy 26:1 “When you come into the land that the LORD your God is giving you for an inheritance and have taken possession of it and live in it,
Deuteronomy 26:2  go to the place that the LORD your God will choose, to make his name to dwell there.
Deuteronomy 26:3 And you shall go to the priest who is in office at that time and say to him, ‘I declare today to the LORD your God that I have come into the land that the LORD swore to our fathers to give us.’
Deuteronomy 26:4 Then the priest shall take the basket from your hand and set it down before the altar of the LORD your God.
Deuteronomy 26:5 “And you shall make response before the LORD your God, ‘A few in number, and there he became a nation, great, mighty, and populous.
Deuteronomy 26:6 And the Egyptians treated us harshly and humiliated us and laid on us hard labor.
Deuteronomy 26:7 Then we cried to the LORD, the God of our fathers, and the LORD heard our voice and saw our affliction, our toil, and our oppression.
Deuteronomy 26:8 And  with signs and wonders.
Deuteronomy 26:9 And he brought us into this place and gave us this land, a land flowing with milk and honey.
Deuteronomy 26:10 And behold, now I bring the first of the fruit of the ground, which you, O LORD, have given me.’ And you shall set it down before the LORD your God and worship before the LORD your God.
Deuteronomy 26:11 And you shall rejoice in all the good that the LORD your God has given to you and to your house, you, and the Levite, and the sojourner who is among you.
Deuteronomy 26:12 “When you have finished paying all the year of tithing, giving it to the Levite, the sojourner, the fatherless, and the widow, so that they may eat within your towns and be filled,
Deuteronomy 26:13 then you shall say before the LORD your God, ‘I have removed the sacred portion out of my house, and moreover, I have given it to the Levite, the sojourner, the fatherless, and the widow, according to all your commandment that you have commanded me. I have not transgressed any of your commandments, nor have I forgotten them.
Deuteronomy 26:14  to the dead. I have obeyed the voice of the LORD my God. I have done according to all that you have commanded me.
Deuteronomy 26:15  Look down from your holy habitation, from heaven, and bless your people Israel and the ground that you have given us, as you swore to our fathers, a land flowing with milk and honey.’
Deuteronomy 26:16 “This day the LORD your God commands you to do these statutes and rules. You shall therefore be careful to do them with all your heart and with all your soul.
Deuteronomy 26:17  You have declared today that the LORD is your God, and that you will walk in his ways, and keep his statutes and his commandments and his rules, and will obey his voice.
Deuteronomy 26:18 And the LORD has declared today that you are a people for his treasured possession, as he has promised you, and that you are to keep all his commandments,
Deuteronomy 26:19 and that he will set you in praise and in fame and in honor a people holy to the LORD your God, as he promised.”
Deuteronomy 27:1 Now Moses and the elders of Israel commanded the people, saying, “Keep the whole commandment that I command you today.
Deuteronomy 27:2 And on the day you cross over the Jordan to the land that the LORD your God is giving you, you shall set up large stones and plaster them with plaster.
Deuteronomy 27:3  a land flowing with milk and honey, as the LORD, the God of your fathers, has promised you.
Deuteronomy 27:4 And when you have crossed over the Jordan, you shall set up these stones, concerning which I command you today, on Mount Ebal, and you shall plaster them with plaster.
Deuteronomy 27:5 And there you shall build an altar to the LORD your God, an altar of stones. You shall wield no iron tool on them;
Deuteronomy 27:6 you shall build an altar to the LORD your God of uncut  stones. And you shall offer burnt offerings on it to the LORD your God,
Deuteronomy 27:7 and you shall sacrifice peace offerings and shall rejoice before the LORD your God.
Deuteronomy 27:8 And you shall write on the stones all the words of this law very plainly.”
Deuteronomy 27:9 Then Moses and the Levitical priests said to all Israel, “Keep silence and hear, O Israel: this day you have become the people of the LORD your God.
Deuteronomy 27:10 You shall therefore obey the voice of the LORD your God, keeping his commandments and his statutes, which I command you today.”
Deuteronomy 27:11 That day Moses charged the people, saying,
Deuteronomy 27:12 “When you have crossed over the Jordan, these shall stand on Mount Gerizim to bless the people: Simeon, Levi, Judah, Issachar, Joseph, and Benjamin.
Deuteronomy 27:13 And these shall stand on Mount Ebal for the curse: Reuben, Gad, Asher, Zebulun, Dan, and Naphtali.
Deuteronomy 27:14 And the Levites shall declare to all the men of Israel in a loud voice:
Deuteronomy 27:15  And all the people shall answer and say, ‘Amen.’
Deuteronomy 27:16  “‘Cursed be anyone who dishonors his father or his mother.’ And all the people shall say, ‘Amen.’
Deuteronomy 27:17  “‘Cursed be anyone who moves his neighbor's landmark.’ And all the people shall say, ‘Amen.’
Deuteronomy 27:18  “‘Cursed be anyone who misleads a blind man on the road.’ And all the people shall say, ‘Amen.’
Deuteronomy 27:19  “‘Cursed be anyone who perverts the justice due to the sojourner, the fatherless, and the widow.’ And all the people shall say, ‘Amen.’
Deuteronomy 27:20   And all the people shall say, ‘Amen.’
Deuteronomy 27:21  “‘Cursed be anyone who lies with any kind of animal.’ And all the people shall say, ‘Amen.’
Deuteronomy 27:22  “‘Cursed be anyone who lies with his sister, whether the daughter of his father or the daughter of his mother.’ And all the people shall say, ‘Amen.’
Deuteronomy 27:23  “‘Cursed be anyone who lies with his mother-in-law.’ And all the people shall say, ‘Amen.’
Deuteronomy 27:24  “‘Cursed be anyone who strikes down his neighbor in secret.’ And all the people shall say, ‘Amen.’
Deuteronomy 27:25  “‘Cursed be anyone who takes a bribe to shed innocent blood.’ And all the people shall say, ‘Amen.’
Deuteronomy 27:26  “‘Cursed be anyone who does not confirm the words of this law by doing them.’ And all the people shall say, ‘Amen.’
Deuteronomy 28:1 “And high above all the nations of the earth.
Deuteronomy 28:2 And all these blessings shall come upon you and overtake you, if you obey the voice of the LORD your God.
Deuteronomy 28:3 Blessed shall you be in the city, and blessed shall you be in the field.
Deuteronomy 28:4 Blessed shall be the fruit of your womb and the fruit of your ground and the fruit of your cattle, the increase of your herds and the young of your flock.
Deuteronomy 28:5 Blessed shall be your basket and your kneading bowl.
Deuteronomy 28:6 Blessed shall you be when you come in, and blessed shall you be when you go out.
Deuteronomy 28:7 “The LORD will cause your enemies who rise against you to be defeated before you. They shall come out against you one way and flee before you seven ways.
Deuteronomy 28:8 The LORD And he will bless you in the land that the LORD your God is giving you.
Deuteronomy 28:9  The LORD will establish you as a people holy to himself, as he has sworn to you, if you keep the commandments of the LORD your God and walk in his ways.
Deuteronomy 28:10 And afraid of you.
Deuteronomy 28:11 And the fruit of your womb and in the fruit of your livestock and in the fruit of your ground, within the land that the LORD swore to your fathers to give you.
Deuteronomy 28:12 The LORD will open to you his good treasury, the heavens, you shall lend to many nations, but you shall not borrow.
Deuteronomy 28:13 And the LORD will make you the head and not the tail, and you shall only go up and not down, if you obey the commandments of the LORD your God, which I command you today, being careful to do them,
Deuteronomy 28:14  and if you do not turn aside from any of the words that I command you today, to the right hand or to the left, to go after other gods to serve them.
Deuteronomy 28:15 “But overtake you.
Deuteronomy 28:16 Cursed shall you be in the city, and cursed shall you be in the field.
Deuteronomy 28:17 Cursed shall be your basket and your kneading bowl.
Deuteronomy 28:18 Cursed shall be the fruit of your womb and the fruit of your ground, the increase of your herds and the young of your flock.
Deuteronomy 28:19 Cursed shall you be when you come in, and cursed shall you be when you go out.
Deuteronomy 28:20 “The LORD until you are destroyed and perish quickly on account of the evil of your deeds, because you have forsaken me.
Deuteronomy 28:21 The LORD will make the pestilence stick to you until he has consumed you off the land that you are entering to take possession of it.
Deuteronomy 28:22  blight and with mildew. They shall pursue you until you perish.
Deuteronomy 28:23 And the heavens over your head shall be bronze, and the earth under you shall be iron.
Deuteronomy 28:24 The LORD will make the rain of your land powder. From heaven dust shall come down on you until you are destroyed.
Deuteronomy 28:25  shall be a horror to all the kingdoms of the earth.
Deuteronomy 28:26 And there shall be no one to frighten them away.
Deuteronomy 28:27 The LORD will strike you scabs and itch, of which you cannot be healed.
Deuteronomy 28:28 The LORD will strike you with madness and blindness and confusion of mind,
Deuteronomy 28:29 and you shall  And you shall be only oppressed and robbed continually, and there shall be no one to help you.
Deuteronomy 28:30  You shall plant a vineyard, but you shall not enjoy its fruit.
Deuteronomy 28:31 Your ox shall be slaughtered before your eyes, but you shall not eat any of it. Your donkey shall be seized before your face, but shall not be restored to you. Your sheep shall be given to your enemies, but there shall be no one to help you.
Deuteronomy 28:32  but you shall be helpless.
Deuteronomy 28:33 A nation that you have not known shall eat up the fruit of your ground and of all your labors, and you shall be only oppressed and crushed continually,
Deuteronomy 28:34 so that you are driven mad by the sights that your eyes see.
Deuteronomy 28:35 The LORD will strike you on the knees and on the legs with grievous boils of which you cannot be healed, from the sole of your foot to the crown of your head.
Deuteronomy 28:36 “The LORD will there you shall serve other gods of wood and stone.
Deuteronomy 28:37 And you shall become a horror, a proverb, and a byword among all the peoples where the LORD will lead you away.
Deuteronomy 28:38  the locust shall consume it.
Deuteronomy 28:39  You shall plant vineyards and dress them, but you shall neither drink of the wine nor gather the grapes, for the worm shall eat them.
Deuteronomy 28:40 You shall have olive trees throughout all your territory, but you shall not anoint yourself with the oil, for your olives shall drop off.
Deuteronomy 28:41 You shall father sons and daughters, but they shall not be yours, for they shall go into captivity.
Deuteronomy 28:42   shall possess all your trees and the fruit of your ground.
Deuteronomy 28:43  The sojourner who is among you shall rise higher and higher above you, and you shall come down lower and lower.
Deuteronomy 28:44  He shall be the head, and you shall be the tail.
Deuteronomy 28:45  “All these curses shall come upon you and pursue you and overtake you till you are destroyed, because you did not obey the voice of the LORD your God, to keep his commandments and his statutes that he commanded you.
Deuteronomy 28:46 They shall be a sign and a wonder against you and your offspring forever.
Deuteronomy 28:47  Because you did not serve the LORD your God with joyfulness and gladness of heart, because of the abundance of all things,
Deuteronomy 28:48 therefore you shall serve your enemies whom the LORD will send against you, in hunger and thirst, in nakedness, and lacking everything. And he will put a yoke of iron on your neck until he has destroyed you.
Deuteronomy 28:49  whose language you do not understand,
Deuteronomy 28:50 a hard-faced nation who shall not respect the old or show mercy to the young.
Deuteronomy 28:51 It shall eat the offspring of your cattle and the fruit of your ground, until you are destroyed; it also shall not leave you grain, wine, or oil, the increase of your herds or the young of your flock, until they have caused you to perish.
Deuteronomy 28:52 “They shall besiege you in all your towns, until your high and fortified walls, in which you trusted, come down throughout all your land. And they shall besiege you in all your towns throughout all your land, which the LORD your God has given you.
Deuteronomy 28:53 And in the siege and in the distress with which your enemies shall distress you.
Deuteronomy 28:54 The man who is the most tender and refined among you will  and to the last of the children whom he has left,
Deuteronomy 28:55 so that he will not give to any of them any of the flesh of his children whom he is eating, because he has nothing else left, in the siege and in the distress with which your enemy shall distress you in all your towns.
Deuteronomy 28:56   to her son and to her daughter,
Deuteronomy 28:57 her afterbirth that comes out from between her feet and her children whom she bears, because lacking everything she will eat them secretly, in the siege and in the distress with which your enemy shall distress you in your towns.
Deuteronomy 28:58 “If you are not careful to do all the words of this law that are written in this book, that you may fear this glorious and awesome name, the LORD your God,
Deuteronomy 28:59 then the LORD will bring on you and your offspring extraordinary afflictions, afflictions severe and lasting, and sicknesses grievous and lasting.
Deuteronomy 28:60 And he will bring upon you again all the diseases of Egypt, of which you were afraid, and they shall cling to you.
Deuteronomy 28:61 Every sickness also and every affliction that is not recorded in the book of this law, the LORD will bring upon you, until you are destroyed.
Deuteronomy 28:62 Whereas as the stars of heaven, you shall be left few in number, because you did not obey the voice of the LORD your God.
Deuteronomy 28:63 And as the LORD take delight in bringing ruin upon you and destroying you. And you shall be plucked off the land that you are entering to take possession of it.
Deuteronomy 28:64 “And the LORD which neither you nor your fathers have known.
Deuteronomy 28:65 And a languishing soul.
Deuteronomy 28:66 Your life shall hang in doubt before you. Night and day you shall be in dread and have no assurance of your life.
Deuteronomy 28:67  the sights that your eyes shall see.
Deuteronomy 28:68 And the LORD you should never make again; and there you shall offer yourselves for sale to your enemies as male and female slaves, but there will be no buyer.”
Deuteronomy 29:1  the covenant that he had made with them at Horeb.
Deuteronomy 29:2  “You have seen all that the LORD did before your eyes in the land of Egypt, to Pharaoh and to all his servants and to all his land,
Deuteronomy 29:3 the great trials that your eyes saw, the signs, and those great wonders.
Deuteronomy 29:4 But to this day the LORD has not given you a heart to understand or eyes to see or ears to hear.
Deuteronomy 29:5  I have led you forty years in the wilderness. Your clothes have not worn out on you, and your sandals have not worn off your feet.
Deuteronomy 29:6  You have not eaten bread, and you have not drunk wine or strong drink, that you may know that I am the LORD your God.
Deuteronomy 29:7 And when you came to this place, Sihon the king of Heshbon and Og the king of Bashan came out against us to battle, but we defeated them.
Deuteronomy 29:8 We took their land and gave it for an inheritance to the Reubenites, the Gadites, and the half-tribe of the Manassites.
Deuteronomy 29:9   in all that you do.
Deuteronomy 29:10 “You are standing today, all of you, before the LORD your God: the heads of your tribes,  your elders, and your officers, all the men of Israel,
Deuteronomy 29:11 your little ones, your wives, and the the one who chops your wood to the one who draws your water,
Deuteronomy 29:12 so that you may enter into the sworn covenant of the LORD your God, which the LORD your God is making with you today,
Deuteronomy 29:13 that he may as he swore to your fathers, to Abraham, to Isaac, and to Jacob.
Deuteronomy 29:14 It is not with you alone that I am making this sworn covenant,
Deuteronomy 29:15 but with whoever is standing here with us today before the LORD our God, and with whoever is not here with us today.
Deuteronomy 29:16 “You know how we lived in the land of Egypt, and how we came through the midst of the nations through which you passed.
Deuteronomy 29:17 And you have seen their detestable things, their idols of wood and stone, of silver and gold, which were among them.
Deuteronomy 29:18 Beware lest there be among you a man or woman or clan or tribe whose heart is turning away today from the LORD our God to go and serve the gods of those nations. Beware lest there be among you a root bearing poisonous and bitter fruit,
Deuteronomy 29:19 one who, when he hears the words of this sworn covenant, blesses himself in his heart, saying, ‘I shall be safe, though I walk in the stubbornness of my heart.’ This will lead to the sweeping away of moist and dry alike.
Deuteronomy 29:20 The LORD will not be willing to forgive him, but rather will blot out his name from under heaven.
Deuteronomy 29:21 And the LORD will single him out from all the tribes of Israel for calamity, in accordance with all the curses of the covenant written in this Book of the Law.
Deuteronomy 29:22 And the next generation, your children who rise up after you, and the foreigner who comes from a far land, will say, when they see the afflictions of that land and the sicknesses with which the LORD has made it sick —
Deuteronomy 29:23 the whole land burned out with brimstone and Admah, and Zeboiim, which the LORD overthrew in his anger and wrath —
Deuteronomy 29:24 all the nations ‘Why has the LORD done thus to this land? What caused the heat of this great anger?’
Deuteronomy 29:25 Then people will say, ‘It is because they abandoned the covenant of the LORD, the God of their fathers, which he made with them when he brought them out of the land of Egypt,
Deuteronomy 29:26 and went and served other gods and worshiped them, gods whom they had not known and whom he had not allotted to them.
Deuteronomy 29:27 Therefore the anger of the LORD was kindled against this land, bringing upon it all the curses written in this book,
Deuteronomy 29:28 and the LORD cast them into another land, as they are this day.’
Deuteronomy 29:29 “The secret things belong to the LORD our God, but the things that are revealed belong to us and to our children forever, that we may do all the words of this law.
Deuteronomy 30:1  you call them to mind among all the nations where the LORD your God has driven you,
Deuteronomy 30:2 and return to the LORD your God, you and your children, and obey his voice in all that I command you today, with all your heart and with all your soul,
Deuteronomy 30:3 then the LORD your God gather you again from all the peoples where the LORD your God has scattered you.
Deuteronomy 30:4  If your outcasts are in the uttermost parts of heaven, from there the LORD your God will gather you, and from there he will take you.
Deuteronomy 30:5 And the LORD your God will bring you into the land that your fathers possessed, that you may possess it. And he will make you more prosperous and numerous than your fathers.
Deuteronomy 30:6 And so that you will love the LORD your God with all your heart and with all your soul, that you may live.
Deuteronomy 30:7 And the LORD your God will put all these curses on your foes and enemies who persecuted you.
Deuteronomy 30:8 And you shall again obey the voice of the LORD and keep all his commandments that I command you today.
Deuteronomy 30:9  For the LORD will again take delight in prospering you, as he took delight in your fathers,
Deuteronomy 30:10 when you obey the voice of the LORD your God, to keep his commandments and his statutes that are written in this Book of the Law, when you turn to the LORD your God with all your heart and with all your soul.
Deuteronomy 30:11 “For this commandment that I command you today is not too hard for you, neither is it far off.
Deuteronomy 30:12  It is not in heaven, that you should say, ‘Who will ascend to heaven for us and bring it to us, that we may hear it and do it?’
Deuteronomy 30:13 Neither is it beyond the sea, that you should say, ‘Who will go over the sea for us and bring it to us, that we may hear it and do it?’
Deuteronomy 30:14 But the word is very near you. It is in your mouth and in your heart, so that you can do it.
Deuteronomy 30:15 “See, I have set before you today life and good, death and evil.
Deuteronomy 30:16 If you obey the commandments of the LORD your God  then you shall live and multiply, and the LORD your God will bless you in the land that you are entering to take possession of it.
Deuteronomy 30:17 But if your heart turns away, and you will not hear, but are drawn away to worship other gods and serve them,
Deuteronomy 30:18  I declare to you today, that you shall surely perish. You shall not live long in the land that you are going over the Jordan to enter and possess.
Deuteronomy 30:19 I call heaven and earth to witness against you today, that I have set before you life and death, blessing and curse. Therefore choose life, that you and your offspring may live,
Deuteronomy 30:20 loving the LORD your God, obeying his voice the land that the LORD swore to your fathers, to Abraham, to Isaac, and to Jacob, to give them.”
Deuteronomy 31:1 So Moses continued to speak these words to all Israel.
Deuteronomy 31:2 And he said to them, “I am ‘You shall not go over this Jordan.’
Deuteronomy 31:3 The LORD your God as the LORD has spoken.
Deuteronomy 31:4 And the LORD will do to them and Og, the kings of the Amorites, and to their land, when he destroyed them.
Deuteronomy 31:5 And the LORD will give them over to you, and you shall do to them according to the whole commandment that I have commanded you.
Deuteronomy 31:6  He will not leave you or forsake you.”
Deuteronomy 31:7 Then “Be strong and courageous, for you shall go with this people into the land that the LORD has sworn to their fathers to give them, and you shall put them in possession of it.
Deuteronomy 31:8 It is the LORD Do not fear or be dismayed.”
Deuteronomy 31:9 Then Moses who carried the ark of the covenant of the LORD, and to all the elders of Israel.
Deuteronomy 31:10 And Moses commanded them, the Feast of Booths,
Deuteronomy 31:11 when all Israel comes you shall read this law before all Israel in their hearing.
Deuteronomy 31:12  Assemble the people, men, women, and little ones, and the sojourner within your towns, that they may hear and learn to fear the LORD your God, and be careful to do all the words of this law,
Deuteronomy 31:13 and that their children, as long as you live in the land that you are going over the Jordan to possess.”
Deuteronomy 31:14 And the LORD said to Moses, I may commission him.” And Moses and Joshua went and presented themselves in the tent of meeting.
Deuteronomy 31:15 And the LORD appeared in the tent in a pillar of cloud. And the pillar of cloud stood over the entrance of the tent.
Deuteronomy 31:16 And the LORD said to Moses, break my covenant that I have made with them.
Deuteronomy 31:17 Then my anger will be kindled against them in that day, and our God is not among us?’
Deuteronomy 31:18 And I will surely hide my face in that day because of all the evil that they have done, because they have turned to other gods.
Deuteronomy 31:19 “Now therefore write a witness for me against the people of Israel.
Deuteronomy 31:20 For when I have brought them into the land break my covenant.
Deuteronomy 31:21 And when many evils and troubles have come upon them, this song shall confront them as I know what they are inclined to do even today, before I have brought them into the land that I swore to give.”
Deuteronomy 31:22 So Moses wrote this song the same day and taught it to the people of Israel.
Deuteronomy 31:23  I will be with you.”
Deuteronomy 31:24 When Moses had finished writing the words of this law in a book to the very end,
Deuteronomy 31:25 Moses commanded the Levites who carried the ark of the covenant of the LORD,
Deuteronomy 31:26 “Take this Book of the Law a witness against you.
Deuteronomy 31:27 For I know how rebellious and you have been rebellious against the LORD. How much more after my death!
Deuteronomy 31:28 Assemble to me all the elders of your tribes and your officers, that I may speak call heaven and earth to witness against them.
Deuteronomy 31:29 For I know that after my death provoking him to anger through the work of your hands.”
Deuteronomy 31:30 Then Moses spoke the words of this song until they were finished, in the ears of all the assembly of Israel:
Deuteronomy 32:1 “Give ear, the earth hear the words of my mouth.
Deuteronomy 32:2 May like showers upon the herb.
Deuteronomy 32:3 For I will proclaim the name of the LORD; ascribe greatness to our God!
Deuteronomy 32:4  without iniquity, just and upright is he.
Deuteronomy 32:5 They have dealt corruptly with him; they are no longer his children a crooked and twisted generation.
Deuteronomy 32:6 Do you thus repay the LORD, you foolish and senseless people? Is not he made you and established you?
Deuteronomy 32:7 ask your father, and he will show you, your elders, and they will tell you.
Deuteronomy 32:8 When the Most High
Deuteronomy 32:9 But the LORD's portion is his people, Jacob his allotted heritage.
Deuteronomy 32:10 “He found him kept him as the apple of his eye.
Deuteronomy 32:11  Like an eagle that stirs up its nest, that flutters over its young, spreading out its wings, catching them, bearing them on its pinions,
Deuteronomy 32:12 no foreign god was with him.
Deuteronomy 32:13  the flinty rock.
Deuteronomy 32:14 Curds from the herd, and milk from the flock, with fat the blood of the grape.
Deuteronomy 32:15 “But the Rock of his salvation.
Deuteronomy 32:16  They stirred him to jealousy with strange gods; with abominations they provoked him to anger.
Deuteronomy 32:17  new gods that had come recently, whom your fathers had never dreaded.
Deuteronomy 32:18 You were unmindful of forgot the God who gave you birth.
Deuteronomy 32:19  his sons and his daughters.
Deuteronomy 32:20 And he said, ‘I will hide my face from them; I will see what their end will be, for they are a perverse generation, children in whom is no faithfulness.
Deuteronomy 32:21  a foolish nation.
Deuteronomy 32:22 For the depths of Sheol, devours the earth and its increase, and sets on fire the foundations of the mountains.
Deuteronomy 32:23 “‘And I will heap disasters upon them; I will spend my arrows on them;
Deuteronomy 32:24 they shall be wasted with hunger, and devoured by plague and poisonous pestilence; I will send things that crawl in the dust.
Deuteronomy 32:25  Outdoors the sword shall bereave, and indoors terror, for young man and woman alike, the nursing child with the man of gray hairs.
Deuteronomy 32:26 I will wipe them from human memory,”
Deuteronomy 32:27 had I not feared provocation by the enemy, lest their adversaries should misunderstand, lest they should say, “Our hand is triumphant, it was not the LORD who did all this.”’
Deuteronomy 32:28 “For they are a nation void of counsel, and there is no understanding in them.
Deuteronomy 32:29  discern their latter end!
Deuteronomy 32:30 How could had sold them, and the LORD had given them up?
Deuteronomy 32:31 Forour enemies are by themselves.
Deuteronomy 32:32 For their vine poison; their clusters are bitter;
Deuteronomy 32:33 their wine is the poison of serpents and the cruel venom of asps.
Deuteronomy 32:34 “‘Is not this laid up in store with me, sealed up in my treasuries?
Deuteronomy 32:35  the day of their calamity is at hand, and their doom comes swiftly.’
Deuteronomy 32:36 For bond or free.
Deuteronomy 32:37 Then he will say,the rock in which they took refuge,
Deuteronomy 32:38 who ate the fat of their sacrifices and drank the wine of their drink offering? Let them rise up and help you; let them be your protection!
Deuteronomy 32:39 “‘See now thatI wound and I heal; and there is none that can deliver out of my hand.
Deuteronomy 32:40 For I lift up my hand to heaven and swear, As I live forever,
Deuteronomy 32:41 if I  and my hand takes hold on judgment, I will take vengeance on my adversaries and will repay those who hate me.
Deuteronomy 32:42 I will make my arrows drunk with blood, and long-haired heads of the enemy.’
Deuteronomy 32:43
Deuteronomy 32:44 Moses came and recited all the words of this song in the hearing of the people, he and  the son of Nun.
Deuteronomy 32:45 And when Moses had finished speaking all these words to all Israel,
Deuteronomy 32:46 he said to them, that you may command them to your children, that they may be careful to do all the words of this law.
Deuteronomy 32:47 For it is no empty word for you, but your very life, and by this word you shall live long in the land that you are going over the Jordan to possess.”
Deuteronomy 32:48 That very day the LORD spoke to Moses,
Deuteronomy 32:49 “Go up this mountain of the Abarim, Mount Nebo, which is in the land of Moab, opposite Jericho, and view the land of Canaan, which I am giving to the people of Israel for a possession.
Deuteronomy 32:50 And die on the mountain which you go up, and be gathered to your people, as Aaron your brother died in Mount Hor and was gathered to his people,
Deuteronomy 32:51  because you broke faith with me in the midst of the people of Israel at the waters of Meribah-kadesh, in the wilderness of Zin, and because you did not treat me as holy in the midst of the people of Israel.
Deuteronomy 32:52 For you shall see the land before you, but you shall not go there, into the land that I am giving to the people of Israel.”
Deuteronomy 33:1 This is the blessing with which Moses the man of God blessed the people of Israel before his death.
Deuteronomy 33:2 He said,   at his right hand.
Deuteronomy 33:3 Yes,  in your steps, receiving direction from you,
Deuteronomy 33:4 when Moses commanded us a law, as a possession for the assembly of Jacob.
Deuteronomy 33:5 Thus the LORD Jeshurun, when the heads of the people were gathered, all the tribes of Israel together.
Deuteronomy 33:6  “Let Reuben live, and not die, but let his men be few.”
Deuteronomy 33:7 And this he said of Judah: “Hear, O LORD, the voice of Judah, and bring him in to his people. With your hands contend  for him, and be a help against his adversaries.”
Deuteronomy 33:8 Andwhom you tested at Massah, with whom you quarreled at the waters of Meribah;
Deuteronomy 33:9 who said of his father and mother, ‘I regard them not’;  they observed your word and kept your covenant.
Deuteronomy 33:10  whole burnt offerings on your altar.
Deuteronomy 33:11 Bless, O LORD, his substance, and accept the work of his hands; crush the loins of his adversaries, of those who hate him, that they rise not again.”
Deuteronomy 33:12   surrounds him all day long, and dwells between his shoulders.”
Deuteronomy 33:13 And  and of the deep that crouches beneath,
Deuteronomy 33:14 with the choicest fruits of the sun and the rich yield of the months,
Deuteronomy 33:15 with the finest produce of the ancient mountains and the abundance of the everlasting hills,
Deuteronomy 33:16 with the best gifts of the earth and him who dwells in the bush. May these rest on the head of Joseph, on the pate of him who is prince among his brothers.
Deuteronomy 33:17 they are the ten thousands of Ephraim, and they are the thousands of Manasseh.”
Deuteronomy 33:18 And of Zebulun he said, “Rejoice, Zebulun, in your going out, and Issachar, in your tents.
Deuteronomy 33:19 They shall call peoples right sacrifices; for they draw from the abundance of the seas and the hidden treasures of the sand.”
Deuteronomy 33:20 And like a lion; he tears off arm and scalp.
Deuteronomy 33:21  he came with the heads of the people, with Israel he executed the justice of the LORD, and his judgments for Israel.”
Deuteronomy 33:22 Andthat leaps from Bashan.”
Deuteronomy 33:23 And  and the south.”
Deuteronomy 33:24 And dip his foot in oil.
Deuteronomy 33:25 Your bars shall be iron and bronze, and as your days, so shall your strength be.
Deuteronomy 33:26 who rides through the heavens to your help, through the skies in his majesty.
Deuteronomy 33:27 The eternal God is your  And he thrust out the enemy before you and said, ‘Destroy.’
Deuteronomy 33:28 So Israel lived in safety,   in a land of grain and wine, whose heavens drop down dew.
Deuteronomy 33:29 Happy are you, O Israel!the shield of your help, and the sword of your triumph! Your enemies shall come fawning to you, and you shall tread upon their backs.”
Deuteronomy 34:1 Then Moses went up from the plains of Moab to Mount Nebo, to the top of Pisgah, which is opposite Jericho. And the LORD showed him all the land, Gilead as far as Dan,
Deuteronomy 34:2 all Naphtali, the land of Ephraim and Manasseh, all the land of Judah as far as the western sea,
Deuteronomy 34:3  Zoar.
Deuteronomy 34:4 And the LORD said to him, you shall not go over there.”
Deuteronomy 34:5 So Moses the servant of the LORD died there in the land of Moab, according to the word of the LORD,
Deuteronomy 34:6 and he buried him in the valley in the land of Moab opposite Beth-peor; but no one knows the place of his burial to this day.
Deuteronomy 34:7  His eye was undimmed, and his vigor unabated.
Deuteronomy 34:8 And the people of Israel wept for Moses in the plains of Moab thirty days. Then the days of weeping and mourning for Moses were ended.
Deuteronomy 34:9 And Joshua the son of Nun was full of the people of Israel obeyed him and did as the LORD had commanded Moses.
Deuteronomy 34:10 And there has not whom the LORD knew face to face,
Deuteronomy 34:11 none like him for all the signs and the wonders that the LORD sent him to do in the land of Egypt, to Pharaoh and to all his servants and to all his land,
Deuteronomy 34:12 and for all the mighty power and all the great deeds of terror that Moses did in the sight of all Israel.
Joshua 1:1 After the death of Moses the assistant,
Joshua 1:2 “Moses my servant is dead. Now therefore arise, go over this Jordan, you and all this people, into the land that I am giving to them, to the people of Israel.
Joshua 1:3  Every place that the sole of your foot will tread upon I have given to you, just as I promised to Moses.
Joshua 1:4  From the wilderness and this Lebanon as far as the great river, the river Euphrates, all the land of the Hittites to the Great Sea toward the going down of the sun shall be your territory.
Joshua 1:5  I will not leave you or forsake you.
Joshua 1:6  Be strong and courageous, for you shall cause this people to inherit the land that I swore to their fathers to give them.
Joshua 1:7 Only be strong and  wherever you go.
Joshua 1:8 This Book of the Law shall not depart from your mouth, but you shall meditate on it day and night, so that you may be careful to do according to all that is written in it. For then you will make your way prosperous, and then you will have good success.
Joshua 1:9 Have I not commanded you? Do not be frightened, and do not be dismayed, for the LORD your God is with you wherever you go.”
Joshua 1:10 And Joshua commanded the officers of the people,
Joshua 1:11 “Pass through the midst of the camp and command the people, ‘Prepare your provisions, for you are to pass over this Jordan to go in to take possession of the land that the LORD your God is giving you to possess.’”
Joshua 1:12 And to the Reubenites, the Gadites, and the half-tribe of Manasseh Joshua said,
Joshua 1:13 “Remember the word that Moses the servant of the LORD commanded you, saying, ‘The LORD your God is providing you a place of rest and will give you this land.’
Joshua 1:14 Your wives, your little ones, and your livestock shall remain in the land that Moses gave you beyond the Jordan, but all the men of valor among you shall pass over armed before your brothers and shall help them,
Joshua 1:15  Then you shall return to the land of your possession and shall possess it, the land that Moses the servant of the LORD gave you beyond the Jordan toward the sunrise.”
Joshua 1:16 And they answered Joshua, “All that you have commanded us we will do, and wherever you send us we will go.
Joshua 1:17 Just as we obeyed Moses in all things, so we will obey you. Only may the LORD your God be with you, as he was with Moses!
Joshua 1:18 Whoever rebels against your commandment and disobeys your words, whatever you command him, shall be put to death. Only be strong and courageous.”
Joshua 2:1 And Joshua the son of Nun Rahab and lodged there.
Joshua 2:2 And it was told to the king of Jericho, “Behold, men of Israel have come here tonight to search out the land.”
Joshua 2:3 Then the king of Jericho sent to Rahab, saying, “Bring out the men who have come to you, who entered your house, for they have come to search out all the land.”
Joshua 2:4 But the woman had taken the two men and hidden them. And she said, “True, the men came to me, but I did not know where they were from.
Joshua 2:5 And when the gate was about to be closed at dark, the men went out. I do not know where the men went. Pursue them quickly, for you will overtake them.”
Joshua 2:6 But she had brought them up to the roof and hid them with the stalks of flax that she had laid in order on the roof.
Joshua 2:7 So the men pursued after them on the way to the Jordan as far as the fords. And the gate was shut as soon as the pursuers had gone out.
Joshua 2:8 Before the men  lay down, she came up to them on the roof
Joshua 2:9 and said to the men, “I know that the LORD has given you the land, melt away before you.
Joshua 2:10 For we have heard how the LORD
Joshua 2:11 And the LORD your God, he is God in the heavens above and on the earth beneath.
Joshua 2:12 Now then, please swear to me by the LORD that, as I have dealt kindly with you, you also will deal kindly with my father's house, and give me a sure sign
Joshua 2:13 that you will save alive my father and mother, my brothers and sisters, and all who belong to them, and deliver our lives from death.”
Joshua 2:14 And the men said to her, “Our life for yours even to death! If you do not tell this business of ours, then when the LORD gives us the land we will deal kindly and faithfully with you.”
Joshua 2:15 Then she let them down by a rope through the window, for her house was built into the city wall, so that she lived in the wall.
Joshua 2:16 And she said  to them, “Go into the hills, or the pursuers will encounter you, and hide there three days until the pursuers have returned. Then afterward you may go your way.”
Joshua 2:17 The men said to her, “We will be guiltless with respect to this oath of yours that you have made us swear.
Joshua 2:18  and you shall gather into your house your father and mother, your brothers, and all your father's household.
Joshua 2:19 Then if anyone goes out of the doors of your house into the street, his blood shall be on his own head, and we shall be guiltless. But if a hand is laid on anyone who is with you in the house, his blood shall be on our head.
Joshua 2:20 But if you tell this business of ours, then we shall be guiltless with respect to your oath that you have made us swear.”
Joshua 2:21 And she said, “According to your words, so be it.” Then she sent them away, and they departed. And she tied the scarlet cord in the window.
Joshua 2:22 They departed and went into the hills and remained there three days until the pursuers returned, and the pursuers searched all along the way and found nothing.
Joshua 2:23 Then the two men returned. They came down from the hills and passed over and came to Joshua the son of Nun, and they told him all that had happened to them.
Joshua 2:24 And they said to Joshua, “Truly melt away because of us.”
Joshua 3:1 Then Joshua rose early in the morning and they set out from Shittim. And they came to the Jordan, he and all the people of Israel, and lodged there before they passed over.
Joshua 3:2  At the end of three days the officers went through the camp
Joshua 3:3 and commanded the people, “As soon as you see the ark of the covenant of the LORD your God being carried by the Levitical priests, then you shall set out from your place and follow it.
Joshua 3:4   in length. Do not come near it, in order that you may know the way you shall go, for you have not passed this way before.”
Joshua 3:5 Then Joshua said to the people, “Consecrate yourselves, for tomorrow the LORD will do wonders among you.”
Joshua 3:6 And Joshua said to the priests, “Take up the ark of the covenant and pass on before the people.” So they took up the ark of the covenant and went before the people.
Joshua 3:7 The LORD said to Joshua, “Today I will begin to as I was with Moses, so I will be with you.
Joshua 3:8 And as for you, command you shall stand still in the Jordan.’”
Joshua 3:9 And Joshua said to the people of Israel, “Come here and listen to the words of the LORD your God.”
Joshua 3:10 And Joshua said, “Here is how you shall know that drive out from before you the Canaanites, the Hittites, the Hivites, the Perizzites, the Girgashites, the Amorites, and the Jebusites.
Joshua 3:11 Behold, the ark of the covenant of is passing over before you into the Jordan.
Joshua 3:12 Now therefore from each tribe a man.
Joshua 3:13 And stand in one heap.”
Joshua 3:14 So when the people set out from their tents to pass over the Jordan with the priests bearing the ark of the covenant before the people,
Joshua 3:15 and as soon as those bearing the ark had come as far as the Jordan, and throughout the time of harvest),
Joshua 3:16 the waters coming down from above stood and rose up in a heap very far away, at Adam, the city that is beside the Salt Sea, were completely cut off. And the people passed over opposite Jericho.
Joshua 3:17 Now the priests bearing the ark of the covenant of the LORD stood firmly on dry ground in the midst of the Jordan, and all Israel was passing over on dry ground until all the nation finished passing over the Jordan.
Joshua 4:1 When all the nation had finished passing over the Jordan, the LORD said to Joshua,
Joshua 4:2  “Take twelve men from the people, from each tribe a man,
Joshua 4:3 and command them, saying, ‘Take the place where you lodge tonight.’”
Joshua 4:4 Then Joshua called the twelve men from the people of Israel, whom he had appointed, a man from each tribe.
Joshua 4:5 And Joshua said to them, “Pass on before the ark of the LORD your God into the midst of the Jordan, and take up each of you a stone upon his shoulder, according to the number of the tribes of the people of Israel,
Joshua 4:6 that this may be a sign among you. When your children ask in time to come, ‘What do those stones mean to you?’
Joshua 4:7 then you shall tell them that a memorial forever.”
Joshua 4:8 And the people of Israel did just as Joshua commanded and took up twelve stones out of the midst of the Jordan, according to the number of the tribes of the people of Israel, just as the LORD told Joshua. And they carried them over with them to the place where they lodged and laid them down  there.
Joshua 4:9 And Joshua set up in the place where the feet of the priests bearing the ark of the covenant had stood; and they are there to this day.
Joshua 4:10 For the priests bearing the ark stood in the midst of the Jordan until everything was finished that the LORD commanded Joshua to tell the people, according to all that Moses had commanded Joshua. The people passed over in haste.
Joshua 4:11 And when all the people had finished passing over, the ark of the LORD and the priests passed over before the people.
Joshua 4:12 The sons of Reuben and the sons of Gad and the half-tribe of Manasseh passed over armed before the people of Israel, as Moses had told them.
Joshua 4:13 About 40,000 ready for war passed over before the LORD for battle, to the plains of Jericho.
Joshua 4:14 On that day the LORD exalted Joshua in the sight of all Israel, and they stood in awe of him just as they had stood in awe of Moses, all the days of his life.
Joshua 4:15 And the LORD said to Joshua,
Joshua 4:16 “Command the priests bearing the ark of the testimony to come up out of the Jordan.”
Joshua 4:17 So Joshua commanded the priests, “Come up out of the Jordan.”
Joshua 4:18 And when the priests bearing the ark of the covenant of the LORD came up from the midst of the Jordan, and the soles of the priests' feet were lifted up on dry ground, the waters of the Jordan returned to their place and overflowed all its banks, as before.
Joshua 4:19 The people came up out of the Jordan on the tenth day of the first month, and they encamped at Gilgal on the east border of Jericho.
Joshua 4:20 And those twelve stones, which they took out of the Jordan, Joshua set up at Gilgal.
Joshua 4:21 And he said to the people of Israel, “When your children ask their fathers in times to come, ‘What do these stones mean?’
Joshua 4:22 then you shall let your children know, ‘Israel passed over this Jordan on dry ground.’
Joshua 4:23 For the LORD your God dried up the waters of the Jordan for you until you passed over, as the LORD your God did to the Red Sea, which he dried up for us until we passed over,
Joshua 4:24
Joshua 5:1 As soon as all the kings of the Amorites who were beyond the Jordan to the west, and all the kings of the Canaanites there was no longer any spirit in them because of the people of Israel.
Joshua 5:2 At that time the LORD said to Joshua, “Make flint knives and circumcise the sons of Israel a second time.”
Joshua 5:3 So Joshua made flint knives and circumcised the sons of Israel at Gibeath-haaraloth.
Joshua 5:4 And this is the reason why Joshua circumcised them: all the males of the people who came out of Egypt, all the men of war, had died in the wilderness on the way after they had come out of Egypt.
Joshua 5:5 Though all the people who came out had been circumcised, yet all the people who were born on the way in the wilderness after they had come out of Egypt had not been circumcised.
Joshua 5:6 For the people of Israel walked a land flowing with milk and honey.
Joshua 5:7 So it was their children, whom he raised up in their place, that Joshua circumcised. For they were uncircumcised, because they had not been circumcised on the way.
Joshua 5:8 When the circumcising of the whole nation was finished, they remained in their places in the camp until they were healed.
Joshua 5:9 And the LORD said to Joshua, “Today I have rolled away the  to this day.
Joshua 5:10 While the people of Israel were encamped at Gilgal, they kept the Passover on the fourteenth day of the month in the evening on the plains of Jericho.
Joshua 5:11 And the day after the Passover, on that very day, they ate of the produce of the land, unleavened cakes and parched grain.
Joshua 5:12 And the manna ceased the day after they ate of the produce of the land. And there was no longer manna for the people of Israel, but they ate of the fruit of the land of Canaan that year.
Joshua 5:13 When Joshua was by Jericho, he lifted up his eyes and looked, and behold, with his drawn sword in his hand. And Joshua went to him and said to him, “Are you for us, or for our adversaries?”
Joshua 5:14 And he said, “No; but I am the commander of the army of the LORD. Now I have come.” And Joshua  and said to him, “What does my lord say to his servant?”
Joshua 5:15 And the commander of the LORD's army said to Joshua, “Take off your sandals from your feet, for the place where you are standing is holy.” And Joshua did so.
Joshua 6:1 Now Jericho was shut up inside and outside because of the people of Israel. None went out, and none came in.
Joshua 6:2 And the LORD said to Joshua, “See, I have given Jericho into your hand, with its king and mighty men of valor.
Joshua 6:3 You shall march around the city, all the men of war going around the city once. Thus shall you do for six days.
Joshua 6:4 Seven priests shall bear seven the priests shall blow the trumpets.
Joshua 6:5 And when they make a long blast with the ram's horn, when you hear the sound of the trumpet, then all the people shall shout with a great shout, and the wall of the city will fall down flat,  and the people shall go up, everyone straight before him.”
Joshua 6:6 So Joshua the son of Nun called the priests and said to them, “Take up the ark of the covenant and let seven priests bear seven trumpets of rams' horns before the ark of the LORD.”
Joshua 6:7 And he said to the people, “Go forward. March around the city and let the armed men pass on before the ark of the LORD.”
Joshua 6:8 And just as Joshua had commanded the people, the seven priests bearing the seven trumpets of rams' horns before the LORD went forward, blowing the trumpets, with the ark of the covenant of the LORD following them.
Joshua 6:9 The armed men were walking before the priests who were blowing the trumpets, and the rear guard was walking after the ark, while the trumpets blew continually.
Joshua 6:10 But Joshua commanded the people, “You shall not shout or make your voice heard, neither shall any word go out of your mouth, until the day I tell you to shout. Then you shall shout.”
Joshua 6:11 So he caused the ark of the LORD to circle the city, going about it once. And they came into the camp and spent the night in the camp.
Joshua 6:12 Then Joshua rose early in the morning, and the priests took up the ark of the LORD.
Joshua 6:13 And the seven priests bearing the seven trumpets of rams' horns before the ark of the LORD walked on, and they blew the trumpets continually. And the armed men were walking before them, and the rear guard was walking after the ark of the LORD, while the trumpets blew continually.
Joshua 6:14 And the second day they marched around the city once, and returned into the camp. So they did for six days.
Joshua 6:15 On the seventh day they rose early, at the dawn of day, and marched around the city in the same manner seven times. It was only on that day that they marched around the city seven times.
Joshua 6:16 And at the seventh time, when the priests had blown the trumpets, Joshua said to the people, “Shout, for the LORD has given you the city.
Joshua 6:17 And the city and all that is within it shall be hid the messengers whom we sent.
Joshua 6:18 But you, keep yourselves from the things devoted to destruction, lest when you have devoted them you take any of the devoted things and make the camp of Israel bring trouble upon it.
Joshua 6:19 But all silver and gold, and every vessel of bronze and iron, are holy to the LORD; they shall go into the treasury of the LORD.”
Joshua 6:20 So the people shouted, and the trumpets were blown. As soon as the people heard the sound of the trumpet, the people shouted a great shout, and the wall fell down flat, so that the people went up into the city, every man straight before him, and they captured the city.
Joshua 6:21 Then they devoted all in the city to destruction, both men and women, young and old, oxen, sheep, and donkeys, with the edge of the sword.
Joshua 6:22 But to the two men who had spied out the land, Joshua said, “Go into the prostitute's house and bring out from there the woman and all who belong to her, as you swore to her.”
Joshua 6:23 So the young men who had been spies went in and brought out Rahab and her father and mother and brothers and all who belonged to her. And they brought all her relatives and put them outside the camp of Israel.
Joshua 6:24 And they burned the city with fire, and everything in it. Only the silver and gold, and the vessels of bronze and of iron, they put into the treasury of the house of the LORD.
Joshua 6:25 But Rahab the prostitute and her father's household and all who belonged to her, Joshua saved alive. And she has lived in Israel to this day, because she hid the messengers whom Joshua sent to spy out Jericho.
Joshua 6:26 Joshua laid an oath on them at that time, saying, “Cursed before the LORD be the man who rises up and rebuilds this city, Jericho. “At the cost of his firstborn shall he lay its foundation, and at the cost of his youngest son shall he set up its gates.”
Joshua 6:27  his fame was in all the land.
Joshua 7:1 But the people of Israel broke faith in regard to the devoted things, for Achan the son of Carmi, son of Zabdi, son of Zerah, of the tribe of Judah, took some of the devoted things. And the anger of the LORD burned against the people of Israel.
Joshua 7:2 Joshua sent men from Jericho to Ai, which is near Beth-aven, east of Bethel, and said to them, “Go up and spy out the land.” And the men went up and spied out Ai.
Joshua 7:3 And they returned to Joshua and said to him, “Do not have all the people go up, but let about two or three thousand men go up and attack Ai. Do not make the whole people toil up there, for they are few.”
Joshua 7:4 So about three thousand men went up there from the people. And they fled before the men of Ai,
Joshua 7:5 and the men of Ai killed about thirty-six of their men and chased them before the gate as far as Shebarim and struck them at the descent. And the hearts of the people melted and became as water.
Joshua 7:6 Then Joshua dust on their heads.
Joshua 7:7 And Joshua said, “Alas, O Lord GOD, why have you brought this people over the Jordan at all, to give us into the hands of the Amorites, to destroy us? Would that we had been content to dwell beyond the Jordan!
Joshua 7:8 O Lord, what can I say, when Israel has turned their backs before their enemies!
Joshua 7:9 For the Canaanites and all the inhabitants of the land will hear of it and will surround us and cut off our name from the earth. And what will you do for your great name?”
Joshua 7:10 The LORD said to Joshua, “Get up! Why have you fallen on your face?
Joshua 7:11 Israel has sinned; they have devoted things; they have stolen and lied and put them among their own belongings.
Joshua 7:12  the devoted things from among you.
Joshua 7:13 Get up! Consecrate the people and say, ‘Consecrate yourselves for tomorrow; for thus says the LORD, God of Israel, “There are devoted things in your midst, O Israel. You cannot stand before your enemies until you take away the devoted things from among you.”
Joshua 7:14 In the morning therefore you shall be brought near by your tribes. And the tribe that the LORD takes by lot shall come near by clans. And the clan that the LORD takes shall come near by households. And the household that the LORD takes shall come near man by man.
Joshua 7:15  an outrageous thing in Israel.’”
Joshua 7:16 So Joshua rose early in the morning and brought Israel near tribe by tribe, and the tribe of Judah was taken.
Joshua 7:17 And he brought near the clans of Judah, and the clan of the Zerahites was taken. And he brought near the clan of the Zerahites man by man, and Zabdi was taken.
Joshua 7:18 And he brought near his household man by man, and Achan the son of Carmi, son of Zabdi, son of Zerah, of the tribe of Judah, was taken.
Joshua 7:19 Then Joshua said to Achan, “My son, tell me now what you have done; do not hide it from me.”
Joshua 7:20 And Achan answered Joshua, “Truly I have sinned against the LORD God of Israel, and this is what I did:
Joshua 7:21 when I saw among the spoil a beautiful cloak from Shinar, and 200 shekels of silver, and a bar of gold weighing 50 shekels,  then I coveted them and took them. And see, they are hidden in the earth inside my tent, with the silver underneath.”
Joshua 7:22 So Joshua sent messengers, and they ran to the tent; and behold, it was hidden in his tent with the silver underneath.
Joshua 7:23 And they took them out of the tent and brought them to Joshua and to all the people of Israel. And they laid them down before the LORD.
Joshua 7:24 And Joshua and all Israel with him took Achan the son of Zerah, and the silver and the cloak and the bar of gold, and his sons and daughters and his oxen and donkeys and sheep and his tent and all that he had. And they brought them up to the Valley of Achor.
Joshua 7:25 And Joshua said, “Why did you They burned them with fire and stoned them with stones.
Joshua 7:26 And they raised over him
Joshua 8:1 And the LORD said to Joshua, I have given into your hand the king of Ai, and his people, his city, and his land.
Joshua 8:2 And you shall do to Ai and its king as you did its spoil and its livestock you shall take as plunder for yourselves. Lay an ambush against the city, behind it.”
Joshua 8:3 So Joshua and all the fighting men arose to go up to Ai. And Joshua chose 30,000 mighty men of valor and sent them out by night.
Joshua 8:4 And he commanded them, “Behold, you shall lie in ambush against the city, behind it. Do not go very far from the city, but all of you remain ready.
Joshua 8:5 And I and all the people who are with me will approach the city. And when they come out against us just as before, we shall flee before them.
Joshua 8:6 And they will come out after us, until we have drawn them away from the city. For they will say, ‘They are fleeing from us, just as before.’ So we will flee before them.
Joshua 8:7 Then you shall rise up from the ambush and seize the city, for the LORD your God will give it into your hand.
Joshua 8:8 And as soon as you have taken the city, you shall set the city on fire. You shall do according to the word of the LORD. See, I have commanded you.”
Joshua 8:9 So Joshua sent them out. And they went to the place of ambush and lay between Bethel and Ai, to the west of Ai, but Joshua spent that night among the people.
Joshua 8:10 Joshua arose early in the morning and mustered the people and went up, he and the elders of Israel, before the people to Ai.
Joshua 8:11 And all the fighting men who were with him went up and drew near before the city and encamped on the north side of Ai, with a ravine between them and Ai.
Joshua 8:12 He took about 5,000 men and set them in ambush between Bethel and Ai, to the west of the city.
Joshua 8:13 So they stationed the forces, the main encampment that was north of the city and its rear guard west of the city. But Joshua spent that night in the valley.
Joshua 8:14 And as soon as the king of Ai saw this, he and all his people, the men of the city, hurried and went out early to the appointed place But he did not know that there was an ambush against him behind the city.
Joshua 8:15 And Joshua and all Israel pretended to be beaten before them and fled in the direction of the wilderness.
Joshua 8:16 So all the people who were in the city were called together to pursue them, and as they pursued Joshua they were drawn away from the city.
Joshua 8:17 Not a man was left in Ai or Bethel who did not go out after Israel. They left the city open and pursued Israel.
Joshua 8:18 Then the LORD said to Joshua, “Stretch out the javelin that is in your hand toward Ai, for I will give it into your hand.” And Joshua stretched out the javelin that was in his hand toward the city.
Joshua 8:19 And the men in the ambush rose quickly out of their place, and as soon as he had stretched out his hand, they ran and entered the city and captured it. And they hurried to set the city on fire.
Joshua 8:20 So when the men of Ai looked back, behold, the smoke of the city went up to heaven, and they had no power to flee this way or that, for the people who fled to the wilderness turned back against the pursuers.
Joshua 8:21 And when Joshua and all Israel saw that the ambush had captured the city, and that the smoke of the city went up, then they turned back and struck down the men of Ai.
Joshua 8:22 And the others came out from the city against them, so they were in the midst of Israel, some on this side, and some on that side. And Israel struck them down, until there was left none that survived or escaped.
Joshua 8:23 But the king of Ai they took alive, and brought him near to Joshua.
Joshua 8:24 When Israel had finished killing all the inhabitants of Ai in the open wilderness where they pursued them, and all of them to the very last had fallen by the edge of the sword, all Israel returned to Ai and struck it down with the edge of the sword.
Joshua 8:25 And all who fell that day, both men and women, were 12,000, all the people of Ai.
Joshua 8:26 But Joshua did not draw back his hand with which he
Joshua 8:27 Only the livestock and the spoil of that city Israel took as their plunder, according to the word of the LORD that he commanded Joshua.
Joshua 8:28 So Joshua burned Ai and made it forever a heap of ruins, as it is to this day.
Joshua 8:29  raised over it a great heap of stones, which stands there to this day.
Joshua 8:30 At that time Joshua built an altar to the LORD, the God of Israel, on Mount Ebal,
Joshua 8:31 just as Moses the servant of the LORD had commanded the people of Israel, as it is written in the Book of the Law of Moses, “an altar of uncut stones, upon which no man has wielded an iron tool.” And they offered on it burnt offerings to the LORD and sacrificed peace offerings.
Joshua 8:32 And there, in the presence of the people of Israel, he wrote on the stones a copy of the law of Moses, which he had written.
Joshua 8:33 And all Israel, just as Moses the servant of the LORD had commanded at the first, to bless the people of Israel.
Joshua 8:34 And afterward the blessing and the curse, according to all that is written in the Book of the Law.
Joshua 8:35 There was not a word of all that Moses commanded that Joshua did not read before all the assembly of Israel,  among them.
Joshua 9:1 As soon as all the kings who were beyond the Jordan the Hittites, the Amorites, the Canaanites, the Perizzites, the Hivites, and the Jebusites, heard of this,
Joshua 9:2 they gathered together as one to fight against Joshua and Israel.
Joshua 9:3 But when the inhabitants of to Ai,
Joshua 9:4 they on their part acted with cunning and went and made ready provisions and took worn-out sacks for their donkeys, and wineskins, worn-out and torn and mended,
Joshua 9:5 with worn-out, patched sandals on their feet, and worn-out clothes. And all their provisions were dry and crumbly.
Joshua 9:6 And they went to Joshua in the camp at Gilgal and said to him and to the men of Israel, “We have come from a distant country, so now make a covenant with us.”
Joshua 9:7 But the men of Israel said to how can we make a covenant with you?”
Joshua 9:8 They said to Joshua, “We are your servants.” And Joshua said to them, “Who are you? And where do you come from?”
Joshua 9:9 They said to him, For we have heard a report of him, and all that he did in Egypt,
Joshua 9:10  Ashtaroth.
Joshua 9:11 So our elders and all the inhabitants of our country said to us, ‘Take provisions in your hand for the journey and go to meet them and say to them, “We are your servants. Come now, make a covenant with us.”’
Joshua 9:12 Here is our bread. It was still warm when we took it from our houses as our food for the journey on the day we set out to come to you, but now, behold, it is dry and crumbly.
Joshua 9:13 These wineskins were new when we filled them, and behold, they have burst. And these garments and sandals of ours are worn out from the very long journey.”
Joshua 9:14 So the men took some of their provisions, but did not ask counsel from the LORD.
Joshua 9:15 And Joshua made peace with them and made a covenant with them, to let them live, and the leaders of the congregation swore to them.
Joshua 9:16 At the end of three days after they had made a covenant with them, they heard that they were their neighbors and that they lived among them.
Joshua 9:17 And the people of Israel set out and reached their cities on the third day. Now their cities were Gibeon, Chephirah, Beeroth, and Kiriath-jearim.
Joshua 9:18 But the people of Israel did not attack them, because the leaders of the congregation had sworn to them by the LORD, the God of Israel. Then all the congregation murmured against the leaders.
Joshua 9:19 But all the leaders said to all the congregation, “We have sworn to them by the LORD, the God of Israel, and now we may not touch them.
Joshua 9:20 This we will do to them: let them live, lest because of the oath that we swore to them.”
Joshua 9:21 And the leaders said to them, “Let them live.” So they became had said of them.
Joshua 9:22 Joshua summoned them, and he said to them, “Why did you deceive us, saying, you dwell among us?
Joshua 9:23 Now therefore you are cursed, and some of you shall never be anything but servants, cutters of wood and drawers of water for the house of my God.”
Joshua 9:24 They answered Joshua, “Because it was told to your servants for a certainty that the LORD your God had we feared greatly for our lives because of you and did this thing.
Joshua 9:25 And now, behold, we are in your hand. Whatever seems good and right in your sight to do to us, do it.”
Joshua 9:26 So he did this to them and delivered them out of the hand of the people of Israel, and they did not kill them.
Joshua 9:27 But Joshua made them that day in the place that he should choose.
Joshua 10:1 As soon as Adoni-zedek, king of Jerusalem, heard how Joshua had captured Ai and had devoted it to destruction, how the inhabitants of Gibeon had made peace with Israel and were among them,
Joshua 10:2   feared greatly, because Gibeon was a great city, like one of the royal cities, and because it was greater than Ai, and all its men were warriors.
Joshua 10:3 So Adoni-zedek king of Jerusalem sent to Hoham king of Hebron, to Piram king of Jarmuth, to Japhia king of Lachish, and to Debir king of Eglon, saying,
Joshua 10:4 “Come up to me and help me, and let us strike Gibeon. For it has made peace with Joshua and with the people of Israel.”
Joshua 10:5 Then the five kings of the Amorites, the king of Jerusalem, the king of Hebron, the king of Jarmuth, the king of Lachish, and the king of Eglon, gathered their forces and went up with all their armies and encamped against Gibeon and made war against it.
Joshua 10:6 And the men of Gibeon sent to Joshua at the camp in Gilgal, saying, “Do not relax your hand from your servants. Come up to us quickly and save us and help us, for all the kings of the Amorites who dwell in the hill country are gathered against us.”
Joshua 10:7 So Joshua went up from Gilgal, he and all the people of war with him, and all the mighty men of valor.
Joshua 10:8 And the LORD said to Joshua, Not a man of them shall stand before you.”
Joshua 10:9 So Joshua came upon them suddenly, having marched up all night from Gilgal.
Joshua 10:10  the ascent of Beth-horon and struck them as far as Azekah and Makkedah.
Joshua 10:11 And as they fled before Israel, while they were the LORD threw down large stones from heaven on them as far as Azekah, and they died. There were more who died because of the hailstones than the sons of Israel killed with the sword.
Joshua 10:12 At that time Joshua spoke to the LORD in the day when the LORD gave the Amorites over to the sons of Israel, and he said in the sight of Israel, “Sun, stand still at Gibeon, and moon, in the Valley of Aijalon.”
Joshua 10:13 And the sun stood still, and the moon stopped, until the nation took vengeance on their enemies.  Is this not written in the Book of Jashar? The sun stopped in the midst of heaven and did not hurry to set for about a whole day.
Joshua 10:14  the LORD fought for Israel.
Joshua 10:15 So Joshua returned, and all Israel with him, to the camp at Gilgal.
Joshua 10:16 These five kings fled and hid themselves in the cave at Makkedah.
Joshua 10:17 And it was told to Joshua, “The five kings have been found, hidden in the cave at Makkedah.”
Joshua 10:18 And Joshua said, “Roll large stones against the mouth of the cave and set men by it to guard them,
Joshua 10:19 but do not stay there yourselves. Pursue your enemies; attack their rear guard. Do not let them enter their cities, for the LORD your God has given them into your hand.”
Joshua 10:20 When Joshua and the sons of Israel had finished striking them with a great blow until they were wiped out, and when the remnant that remained of them had entered into the fortified cities,
Joshua 10:21 then all the people returned safe to Joshua in the camp at Makkedah. Not a man moved his tongue against any of the people of Israel.
Joshua 10:22 Then Joshua said, “Open the mouth of the cave and bring those five kings out to me from the cave.”
Joshua 10:23 And they did so, and brought those five kings out to him from the cave, the king of Jerusalem, the king of Hebron, the king of Jarmuth, the king of Lachish, and the king of Eglon.
Joshua 10:24 And when they brought those kings out to Joshua, Joshua summoned all the men of Israel and said to the chiefs of the men of war who had gone with him, “Come near; put your feet on the necks of these kings.” Then they came near and put their feet on their necks.
Joshua 10:25 And Joshua said to them, For thus the LORD will do to all your enemies against whom you fight.”
Joshua 10:26 And afterward Joshua struck them and put them to death, and he hanged them on five trees. And they hung on the trees until evening.
Joshua 10:27 But at the time of the going down of the sun, Joshua commanded, and they took them down from the trees and threw them into the cave where they had hidden themselves, and they set large stones against the mouth of the cave, which remain to this very day.
Joshua 10:28 As for just as he had done to the king of Jericho.
Joshua 10:29 Then Joshua and all Israel with him passed on from Makkedah to Libnah and fought against Libnah.
Joshua 10:30 And the LORD gave it also and its king into the hand of Israel. And he struck it with the edge of the sword, and every person in it; he left none remaining in it. And he did to its king as he had done to the king of Jericho.
Joshua 10:31 Then Joshua and all Israel with him passed on from Libnah to Lachish and laid siege to it and fought against it.
Joshua 10:32 And the LORD gave Lachish into the hand of Israel, and he captured it on the second day and struck it with the edge of the sword, and every person in it, as he had done to Libnah.
Joshua 10:33 Then Horam king of Gezer came up to help Lachish. And Joshua struck him and his people, until he left none remaining.
Joshua 10:34 Then Joshua and all Israel with him passed on from Lachish to Eglon. And they laid siege to it and fought against it.
Joshua 10:35 And they captured it on that day, and struck it with the edge of the sword. And he devoted every person in it to destruction that day, as he had done to Lachish.
Joshua 10:36 Then Joshua and all Israel with him went up from Eglon to Hebron. And they fought against it
Joshua 10:37 and captured it and struck it with the edge of the sword, and its king and its towns, and every person in it. He left none remaining, as he had done to Eglon, and devoted it to destruction and every person in it.
Joshua 10:38 Then Joshua and all Israel with him turned back to Debir and fought against it
Joshua 10:39 and he captured it with its king and all its towns. And they struck them with the edge of the sword and devoted to destruction every person in it; he left none remaining. Just as he had done to Hebron and to Libnah and its king, so he did to Debir and to its king.
Joshua 10:40 So Joshua struck the whole land, the hill country and the Negeb and the lowland but devoted to destruction all that breathed, just as the LORD God of Israel commanded.
Joshua 10:41 And Joshua struck them from Goshen, as far as Gibeon.
Joshua 10:42 And Joshua captured all these kings and their land at one time, because the LORD God of Israel fought for Israel.
Joshua 10:43  Then Joshua returned, and all Israel with him, to the camp at Gilgal.
Joshua 11:1 When Jabin, king of Hazor, heard of this, he sent to Jobab king of Madon, and to the king of Shimron, and to the king of Achshaph,
Joshua 11:2 and to the kings who were in the northern hill country, and in the west,
Joshua 11:3 to the Canaanites in the east and the west, the Amorites, the Hittites, the Perizzites, and the Mizpah.
Joshua 11:4 And they came out with all their troops, a great horde, in number like the sand that is on the seashore, with very many horses and chariots.
Joshua 11:5 And all these kings joined their forces and came and encamped together at the waters of Merom to fight against Israel.
Joshua 11:6 And the LORD said to Joshua, chariots with fire.”
Joshua 11:7 So Joshua and all his warriors came suddenly against them by the waters of Merom and fell upon them.
Joshua 11:8 And the LORD gave them into the hand of Israel, who struck them and chased them as far as Mizpeh. And they struck them until he left none remaining.
Joshua 11:9 And Joshua did to them just as the LORD said to him: he hamstrung their horses and burned their chariots with fire.
Joshua 11:10 And Joshua turned back at that time and captured Hazor and struck its king with the sword, for Hazor formerly was the head of all those kingdoms.
Joshua 11:11 And they struck with the sword all who were in it, devoting them to destruction; there was none left that breathed. And he burned Hazor with fire.
Joshua 11:12 And all the cities of those kings, and all their kings, Joshua captured, and struck them with the edge of the sword, devoting them to destruction, just as Moses the servant of the LORD had commanded.
Joshua 11:13 But none of the cities that stood on mounds did Israel burn, except Hazor alone; that Joshua burned.
Joshua 11:14 And all the spoil of these cities and the livestock, the people of Israel took for their plunder. But every person they struck with the edge of the sword until they had destroyed them, and they did not leave any who breathed.
Joshua 11:15  and so Joshua did. He left nothing undone of all that the LORD had commanded Moses.
Joshua 11:16 So Joshua took all that land, and the hill country of Israel and its lowland
Joshua 11:17  all their kings and struck them and put them to death.
Joshua 11:18 Joshua made war a long time with all those kings.
Joshua 11:19 There was not a city that made peace with the people of Israel except the Hivites, the inhabitants of Gibeon. They took them all in battle.
Joshua 11:20 For it was the LORD's doing just as the LORD commanded Moses.
Joshua 11:21 And Joshua came at that time and cut off the Anakim from the hill country, from Hebron, from Debir, from Anab, and from all the hill country of Judah, and from all the hill country of Israel. Joshua devoted them to destruction with their cities.
Joshua 11:22 There was none of the Anakim left in the land of the people of Israel. Only in Gaza, in Gath, and in Ashdod did some remain.
Joshua 11:23 So Joshua took the whole land, according to their tribal allotments. And the land had rest from war.
Joshua 12:1 Now these are the kings of the land whom the people of Israel defeated and took possession of their land beyond the Jordan toward the sunrise, from the Arabah eastward:
Joshua 12:2  river Jabbok, the boundary of the Ammonites, that is, half of Gilead,
Joshua 12:3 and the slopes of Pisgah;
Joshua 12:4 and who lived at Ashtaroth and at Edrei
Joshua 12:5 and ruled over to the boundary of the Geshurites and the Maacathites, and over half of Gilead to the boundary of Sihon king of Heshbon.
Joshua 12:6  gave their land for a possession to the Reubenites and the Gadites and the half-tribe of Manasseh.
Joshua 12:7 And these are the kings of the land whom Joshua and the people of Israel defeated on the west side of the Jordan, from Baal-gad in the Valley of Lebanon to according to their allotments,
Joshua 12:8  the Hittites, the Amorites, the Canaanites, the Perizzites, the Hivites, and the Jebusites):
Joshua 12:9  the king of Ai, which is beside Bethel, one;
Joshua 12:10  the king of Hebron, one;
Joshua 12:11  the king of Lachish, one;
Joshua 12:12  the king of Gezer, one;
Joshua 12:13  the king of Debir, one; the king of Geder, one;
Joshua 12:14 the king of Hormah, one; the king of Arad, one;
Joshua 12:15  the king of Libnah, one; the king of Adullam, one;
Joshua 12:16  the king of Bethel, one;
Joshua 12:17 the king of Tappuah, one; the king of Hepher, one;
Joshua 12:18 the king of Aphek, one; the king of Lasharon, one;
Joshua 12:19  the king of Hazor, one;
Joshua 12:20  the king of Achshaph, one;
Joshua 12:21  the king of Megiddo, one;
Joshua 12:22 the king of Kedesh, one; the king of Jokneam in Carmel, one;
Joshua 12:23   one;
Joshua 12:24 the king of Tirzah, one: in all, thirty-one kings.
Joshua 13:1 Now Joshua to possess.
Joshua 13:2  regions of the Philistines, and all those of the Geshurites
Joshua 13:3 (from the the Avvim,
Joshua 13:4 in the south, all the land of the Canaanites, and Mearah that belongs to the Sidonians, to Aphek, to the boundary of the Amorites,
Joshua 13:5 and the land of the Lebo-hamath,
Joshua 13:6 all the inhabitants of the hill country from Lebanon to for an inheritance, as I have commanded you.
Joshua 13:7 Now therefore divide this land for an inheritance to the nine tribes and half the tribe of Manasseh.”
Joshua 13:8 With the other half of the tribe of Manasseh which Moses gave them, beyond the Jordan eastward, as Moses the servant of the LORD gave them:
Joshua 13:9  all the tableland of Medeba as far as Dibon;
Joshua 13:10  and all the cities of Sihon king of the Amorites, who reigned in Heshbon, as far as the boundary of the Ammonites;
Joshua 13:11 and Gilead, and the all Bashan to Salecah;
Joshua 13:12  these Moses had struck and driven out.
Joshua 13:13  Yet the people of Israel did not drive out the Geshurites or the Maacathites, but Geshur and Maacath dwell in the midst of Israel to this day.
Joshua 13:14  To the tribe of Levi alone Moses gave no inheritance. The offerings by fire to the LORD God of Israel are their inheritance, as he said to him.
Joshua 13:15 And Moses gave an inheritance to the tribe of the people of Reuben according to their clans.
Joshua 13:16 So their territory was from Aroer, Medeba;
Joshua 13:17 with Heshbon, and all its cities that are in the tableland; Dibon, and Bamoth-baal, and Beth-baal-meon,
Joshua 13:18  and Jahaz, and Kedemoth, and Mephaath,
Joshua 13:19 and Sibmah, and Zereth-shahar on the hill of the valley,
Joshua 13:20 and Beth-jeshimoth,
Joshua 13:21 that is, the leaders of Midian, Evi and Rekem and Zur and Hur and Reba, the princes of Sihon, who lived in the land.
Joshua 13:22  Balaam also, the son of Beor, the one who practiced divination, was killed with the sword by the people of Israel among the rest of their slain.
Joshua 13:23 And the border of the people of Reuben was the Jordan as a boundary. This was the inheritance of the people of Reuben, according to their clans with their cities and villages.
Joshua 13:24 Moses gave an inheritance also to the tribe of Gad, to the people of Gad, according to their clans.
Joshua 13:25  Rabbah,
Joshua 13:26 and from Heshbon to Ramath-mizpeh and Betonim, and from
Joshua 13:27 and in the valley Beth-haram, Beth-nimrah, Chinnereth, eastward beyond the Jordan.
Joshua 13:28 This is the inheritance of the people of Gad according to their clans, with their cities and villages.
Joshua 13:29 And Moses gave an inheritance to the half-tribe of Manasseh. It was allotted to the half-tribe of the people of Manasseh according to their clans.
Joshua 13:30 Their region extended from the towns of Jair, which are in Bashan, sixty cities,
Joshua 13:31 and half Gilead, and Machir the son of Manasseh for the half of the people of Machir according to their clans.
Joshua 13:32 These are the inheritances that Moses distributed in the plains of Moab, beyond the Jordan east of Jericho.
Joshua 13:33  just as he said to them.
Joshua 14:1 These are the inheritances that the people of Israel received in the land of Canaan, which Eleazar the priest and Joshua the son of Nun and the heads of the fathers' houses of the tribes of the people of Israel gave them to inherit.
Joshua 14:2 Their inheritance was by lot, just as the LORD had commanded by the hand of Moses for the nine and one-half tribes.
Joshua 14:3  but to the Levites he gave no inheritance among them.
Joshua 14:4 For the people of Joseph were two tribes, Manasseh and Ephraim. And no portion was given to the Levites in the land, but only cities to dwell in, with their pasturelands for their livestock and their substance.
Joshua 14:5 The people of Israel did as the LORD commanded Moses; they allotted the land.
Joshua 14:6 Then the people of Judah came to Joshua at Gilgal. And Caleb the son of Jephunneh the what the LORD said to Moses the man of God in Kadesh-barnea concerning you and me.
Joshua 14:7 I was forty years old when Moses the servant of the LORD sent me from Kadesh-barnea to spy out the land, and I brought him word again as it was in my heart.
Joshua 14:8 But my brothers who went up with me made the heart of the people melt; yet I wholly followed the LORD my God.
Joshua 14:9 And Moses swore on that day, saying, on which your foot has trodden shall be an inheritance for you and your children forever, because you have wholly followed the LORD my God.’
Joshua 14:10 And now, behold, the LORD has kept me alive, eighty-five years old.
Joshua 14:11  for going and coming.
Joshua 14:12 So now give me this hill country of which the LORD spoke on that day, for you heard on that day how the Anakim were there, with great fortified cities. It may be that the LORD will be with me, and I shall drive them out just as the LORD said.”
Joshua 14:13 Then Joshua Hebron to Caleb the son of Jephunneh for an inheritance.
Joshua 14:14 Therefore Hebron became the inheritance of Caleb the son of Jephunneh the Kenizzite to this day, because he wholly followed the LORD, the God of Israel.
Joshua 14:15  And the land had rest from war.
Joshua 15:1 The allotment for the tribe of the people of Judah according to their clans reached southward the wilderness of Zin at the farthest south.
Joshua 15:2 And their south boundary ran from the end of the Salt Sea, from the bay that faces southward.
Joshua 15:3 It goes out southward of the ascent of Akrabbim, passes along to Zin, and goes up south of Kadesh-barnea, along by Hezron, up to Addar, turns about to Karka,
Joshua 15:4 passes along to Azmon, goes out by the Brook of Egypt, and comes to its end at the sea. This shall be your south boundary.
Joshua 15:5 And the east boundary is the Salt Sea, to the mouth of the Jordan. And the boundary on the north side runs from the bay of the sea at the mouth of the Jordan.
Joshua 15:6 And the boundary goes up to the stone of Bohan the son of Reuben.
Joshua 15:7 And the boundary goes up to Debir from En-rogel.
Joshua 15:8 Then the boundary goes up by of Rephaim.
Joshua 15:9 Then the boundary extends from the top of the mountainthat is, Kiriath-jearim).
Joshua 15:10 And the boundary circles west of Baalah to Mount Seir, passes along to the northern shoulder of Mount Jearim (that is, Chesalon), and goes down to Timnah.
Joshua 15:11 The boundary goes out Baalah and goes out to Jabneel. Then the boundary comes to an end at the sea.
Joshua 15:12 And the west boundary was the Great Sea with its coastline. This is the boundary around the people of Judah according to their clans.
Joshua 15:13 According to the commandment of the LORD to Joshua, he gave to Caleb the son of Jephunneh a portion among the people of Judah, Hebron (Arba was the father of Anak).
Joshua 15:14 And Caleb drove out from there the three sons of Anak, Sheshai and Ahiman and Talmai, the descendants of Anak.
Joshua 15:15 And he went up from there against the inhabitants of Debir. Now the name of Debir formerly was Kiriath-sepher.
Joshua 15:16 And Caleb said, “Whoever strikes Kiriath-sepher and captures it, to him will I give Achsah my daughter as wife.”
Joshua 15:17  the brother of Caleb, captured it. And he gave him Achsah his daughter as wife.
Joshua 15:18 When she came to him, she urged him to ask her father for a field. And she got off her donkey, and Caleb said to her, “What do you want?”
Joshua 15:19 She said to him, “Give me a blessing. Since you have given me the land of the Negeb, give me also springs of water.” And he gave her the upper springs and the lower springs.
Joshua 15:20 This is the inheritance of the tribe of the people of Judah according to their clans.
Joshua 15:21 The cities belonging to the tribe of the people of Judah in the extreme south, toward the boundary of Edom, were Kabzeel, Eder, Jagur,
Joshua 15:22 Kinah, Dimonah, Adadah,
Joshua 15:23 Kedesh, Hazor, Ithnan,
Joshua 15:24  Ziph, Telem, Bealoth,
Joshua 15:25 Hazor-hadattah, Kerioth-hezron (that is, Hazor),
Joshua 15:26 Amam, Shema, Moladah,
Joshua 15:27 Hazar-gaddah, Heshmon, Beth-pelet,
Joshua 15:28 Hazar-shual, Beersheba, Biziothiah,
Joshua 15:29 Baalah, Iim, Ezem,
Joshua 15:30 Eltolad, Chesil, Hormah,
Joshua 15:31  Ziklag, Madmannah, Sansannah,
Joshua 15:32 Lebaoth, Shilhim, Ain, and Rimmon: in all, twenty-nine cities with their villages.
Joshua 15:33 And in the lowland, Eshtaol, Zorah, Ashnah,
Joshua 15:34 Zanoah, En-gannim, Tappuah, Enam,
Joshua 15:35  Azekah,
Joshua 15:36 Shaaraim, Adithaim, Gederah, Gederothaim: fourteen cities with their villages.
Joshua 15:37 Zenan, Hadashah, Migdal-gad,
Joshua 15:38 Dilean, Mizpeh, Joktheel,
Joshua 15:39  Eglon,
Joshua 15:40 Cabbon, Lahmam, Chitlish,
Joshua 15:41 Gederoth, Beth-dagon, Naamah, and Makkedah: sixteen cities with their villages.
Joshua 15:42  Libnah, Ether, Ashan,
Joshua 15:43 Iphtah, Ashnah, Nezib,
Joshua 15:44  Keilah, Achzib, and Mareshah: nine cities with their villages.
Joshua 15:45  Ekron, with its towns and its villages;
Joshua 15:46 from Ekron to the sea, all that were by the side of Ashdod, with their villages.
Joshua 15:47  the Great Sea with its coastline.
Joshua 15:48 And in the hill country, Shamir, Jattir, Socoh,
Joshua 15:49 Dannah, Kiriath-sannah (that is, Debir),
Joshua 15:50 Anab, Eshtemoh, Anim,
Joshua 15:51  Giloh: eleven cities with their villages.
Joshua 15:52 Arab, Dumah, Eshan,
Joshua 15:53 Janim, Beth-tappuah, Aphekah,
Joshua 15:54 Humtah, Hebron), and Zior: nine cities with their villages.
Joshua 15:55  Ziph, Juttah,
Joshua 15:56 Jezreel, Jokdeam, Zanoah,
Joshua 15:57 Kain, Gibeah, and Timnah: ten cities with their villages.
Joshua 15:58 Halhul, Beth-zur, Gedor,
Joshua 15:59 Maarath, Beth-anoth, and Eltekon: six cities with their villages.
Joshua 15:60  Kiriath-baal (that is, Kiriath-jearim), and Rabbah: two cities with their villages.
Joshua 15:61 In the wilderness, Beth-arabah, Middin, Secacah,
Joshua 15:62 Nibshan, the City of Salt, and Engedi: six cities with their villages.
Joshua 15:63 But the so the Jebusites dwell with the people of Judah at Jerusalem to this day.
Joshua 16:1 The allotment of the people of Joseph went from the Jordan by Jericho, east of the waters of Jericho, into the wilderness, going up from Jericho into the hill country to Bethel.
Joshua 16:2 Then going from Bethel to Luz, it passes along to Ataroth, the territory of the Archites.
Joshua 16:3 Then it goes down westward to the territory of the Japhletites, as far as the territory of Lower Gezer, and it ends at the sea.
Joshua 16:4  The people of Joseph, Manasseh and Ephraim, received their inheritance.
Joshua 16:5 The territory of the people of Ephraim by their clans was as follows: the boundary of their inheritance on the east was Ataroth-addar as far as Upper Beth-horon,
Joshua 16:6 and the boundary goes from there to the sea. On the north is Michmethath. Then on the east the boundary turns around toward Taanath-shiloh and passes along beyond it on the east to Janoah,
Joshua 16:7 then it goes down from Janoah to Ataroth and to Naarah, and touches Jericho, ending at the Jordan.
Joshua 16:8 From Tappuah the boundary goes westward to the brook Kanah and ends at the sea. Such is the inheritance of the tribe of the people of Ephraim by their clans,
Joshua 16:9 together with the towns that were set apart for the people of Ephraim within the inheritance of the Manassites, all those towns with their villages.
Joshua 16:10 However, to do forced labor.
Joshua 17:1 Then allotment was made to the people of Manasseh, for he was were allotted Gilead and Bashan, because he was a man of war.
Joshua 17:2 And allotments were made to the rest of the people of Manasseh by their clans, Abiezer, Helek, Asriel, Shechem, Hepher, and Shemida. These were the male descendants of Manasseh the son of Joseph, by their clans.
Joshua 17:3 Now Mahlah, Noah, Hoglah, Milcah, and Tirzah.
Joshua 17:4 They approached “The LORD commanded Moses to give us an inheritance along with our brothers.” So according to the mouth of the LORD he gave them an inheritance among the brothers of their father.
Joshua 17:5 Thus there fell to Manasseh ten portions, besides the land of Gilead and Bashan, which is on the other side of the Jordan,
Joshua 17:6 because the daughters of Manasseh received an inheritance along with his sons. The land of Gilead was allotted to the rest of the people of Manasseh.
Joshua 17:7 The territory of Manasseh reached from Asher to Michmethath, which is east of Shechem. Then the boundary goes along southward to the inhabitants of En-tappuah.
Joshua 17:8 The land of Tappuah belonged to Manasseh, but the town of Tappuah on the boundary of Manasseh belonged to the people of Ephraim.
Joshua 17:9  Then the boundary went down to the brook Kanah. These cities, to the south of the brook, among the cities of Manasseh, belong to Ephraim. Then the boundary of Manasseh goes on the north side of the brook and ends at the sea,
Joshua 17:10 the land to the south being Ephraim's and that to the north being Manasseh's, with the sea forming its boundary. On the north Asher is reached, and on the east Issachar.
Joshua 17:11 Also in Issachar and in Asher
Joshua 17:12  Yet the people of Manasseh could not take possession of those cities, but the Canaanites persisted in dwelling in that land.
Joshua 17:13 Now when the people of Israel grew strong, they put the Canaanites to forced labor, but did not utterly drive them out.
Joshua 17:14 Then a numerous people, since all along the LORD has blessed me?”
Joshua 17:15 And Joshua said to them, “If you are a numerous people, go up by yourselves to the forest, and there clear ground for yourselves in the land of the Perizzites and the hill country of Ephraim is too narrow for you.”
Joshua 17:16 The people of Joseph said, “The hill country is not enough for us. Yet all the Canaanites who dwell in the plain have the Valley of Jezreel.”
Joshua 17:17 Then Joshua said to the house of Joseph, to Ephraim and Manasseh, “You are a numerous people and have great power. You shall not have one allotment only,
Joshua 17:18 but the hill country shall be yours, for though it is a forest, you shall clear it and possess it to its farthest borders. For you shall drive out the Canaanites, though they have chariots of iron, and though they are strong.”
Joshua 18:1 Then the whole congregation of the people of Israel assembled at the tent of meeting there. The land lay subdued before them.
Joshua 18:2 There remained among the people of Israel seven tribes whose inheritance had not yet been apportioned.
Joshua 18:3 So Joshua said to the people of Israel, “How long will you put off going in to take possession of the land, which the LORD, the God of your fathers, has given you?
Joshua 18:4 Provide three men from each tribe, and I will send them out that they may set out and go up and down the land. They shall write a description of it with a view to their inheritances, and then come to me.
Joshua 18:5 They shall divide it into seven portions. and the house of Joseph shall continue in their territory on the north.
Joshua 18:6 And you shall describe the land in seven divisions and bring the description here to me. And I will cast lots for you here before the LORD our God.
Joshua 18:7  And Gad and Reuben and half the tribe of Manasseh have received their inheritance beyond the Jordan eastward, which Moses the servant of the LORD gave them.”
Joshua 18:8 So the men arose and went, and Joshua charged those who went to write the description of the land, saying, “Go up and down in the land and write a description and return to me. And I will cast lots for you here before the LORD in Shiloh.”
Joshua 18:9 So the men went and passed up and down in the land and wrote in a book a description of it by towns in seven divisions. Then they came to Joshua to the camp at Shiloh,
Joshua 18:10 and Joshua to each his portion.
Joshua 18:11 The lot of the tribe of the people of Benjamin according to its clans came up, and the territory allotted to it fell between the people of Judah and the people of Joseph.
Joshua 18:12  Beth-aven.
Joshua 18:13 From there the boundary passes along southward in the direction of Luz, to the shoulder of Beth-horon.
Joshua 18:14 Then the boundary goes in another direction, turning on thethat is, Kiriath-jearim), a city belonging to the people of Judah. This forms the western side.
Joshua 18:15 And the southern side begins at the outskirts of Kiriath-jearim. And the boundary goes from there to Ephron, to the spring of the waters of Nephtoah.
Joshua 18:16 Then the boundary goes down to the border of the mountain that overlooks En-rogel.
Joshua 18:17 Then it bends in a northerly direction going on to En-shemesh, and from there goes to Geliloth, which is opposite the ascent of Adummim. Then it goes down to the stone of Bohan the son of Reuben,
Joshua 18:18 and passing on to the north of the Arabah.
Joshua 18:19 Then the boundary passes on to the north of the shoulder of the Salt Sea, at the south end of the Jordan: this is the southern border.
Joshua 18:20 The Jordan forms its boundary on the eastern side. This is the inheritance of the people of Benjamin, according to their clans, boundary by boundary all around.
Joshua 18:21 Now the cities of the tribe of the people of Benjamin according to their clans were Jericho, Beth-hoglah, Emek-keziz,
Joshua 18:22 Beth-arabah, Zemaraim, Bethel,
Joshua 18:23 Avvim, Parah, Ophrah,
Joshua 18:24 Chephar-ammoni, Ophni, Geba — twelve cities with their villages:
Joshua 18:25 Gibeon, Ramah, Beeroth,
Joshua 18:26 Mizpeh, Chephirah, Mozah,
Joshua 18:27 Rekem, Irpeel, Taralah,
Joshua 18:28 Zela, Haeleph,  — fourteen cities with their villages. This is the inheritance of the people of Benjamin according to its clans.
Joshua 19:1 The second lot came out for Simeon, for the tribe of the people of Simeon, according to their clans, and their inheritance was in the midst of the inheritance of the people of Judah.
Joshua 19:2  And they had for their inheritance Beersheba, Sheba, Moladah,
Joshua 19:3 Hazar-shual, Balah, Ezem,
Joshua 19:4 Eltolad, Bethul, Hormah,
Joshua 19:5 Ziklag, Beth-marcaboth, Hazar-susah,
Joshua 19:6 Beth-lebaoth, and Sharuhen — thirteen cities with their villages;
Joshua 19:7 Ain, Rimmon, Ether, and Ashan — four cities with their villages,
Joshua 19:8 together with all the villages around these cities as far as Baalath-beer, Ramah of the Negeb. This was the inheritance of the tribe of the people of Simeon according to their clans.
Joshua 19:9  The inheritance of the people of Simeon formed part of the territory of the people of Judah. Because the portion of the people of Judah was too large for them, the people of Simeon obtained an inheritance in the midst of their inheritance.
Joshua 19:10 The third lot came up for the people of Zebulun, according to their clans. And the territory of their inheritance reached as far as Sarid.
Joshua 19:11 Then their boundary goes up Jokneam.
Joshua 19:12 From Sarid it goes in the other direction eastward toward the sunrise to the boundary of Chisloth-tabor. From there it goes to Daberath, then up to Japhia.
Joshua 19:13 From there it passes along on the east toward the sunrise to Gath-hepher, to Eth-kazin, and going on to Rimmon it bends toward Neah,
Joshua 19:14 then on the north the boundary turns about to Hannathon, and it ends at the Valley of Iphtahel;
Joshua 19:15 and Kattath, Nahalal, Shimron, Idalah, and Bethlehem — twelve cities with their villages.
Joshua 19:16 This is the inheritance of the people of Zebulun, according to their clans — these cities with their villages.
Joshua 19:17 The fourth lot came out for Issachar, for the people of Issachar, according to their clans.
Joshua 19:18 Their territory included Jezreel, Chesulloth, Shunem,
Joshua 19:19 Hapharaim, Shion, Anaharath,
Joshua 19:20 Rabbith, Kishion, Ebez,
Joshua 19:21 Remeth, En-gannim, En-haddah, Beth-pazzez.
Joshua 19:22 The boundary also touches Tabor, Shahazumah, and Beth-shemesh, and its boundary ends at the Jordan — sixteen cities with their villages.
Joshua 19:23 This is the inheritance of the tribe of the people of Issachar, according to their clans — the cities with their villages.
Joshua 19:24 The fifth lot came out for the tribe of the people of Asher according to their clans.
Joshua 19:25 Their territory included Helkath, Hali, Beten, Achshaph,
Joshua 19:26 Allammelech, Amad, and Mishal. On the west it touches Carmel and Shihor-libnath,
Joshua 19:27 then it turns eastward, it goes to Beth-dagon, and touches Zebulun and the Valley of Iphtahel northward to Beth-emek and Neiel. Then it continues in the north to Cabul,
Joshua 19:28 Ebron, Rehob, Hammon, Kanah, as far as Sidon the Great.
Joshua 19:29 Then the boundary turns to Ramah, reaching to the fortified city of Tyre. Then the boundary turns to Hosah, and it ends at the sea; Mahalab,  Achzib,
Joshua 19:30 Ummah, Aphek and Rehob — twenty-two cities with their villages.
Joshua 19:31 This is the inheritance of the tribe of the people of Asher according to their clans — these cities with their villages.
Joshua 19:32 The sixth lot came out for the people of Naphtali, for the people of Naphtali, according to their clans.
Joshua 19:33 And their boundary ran from Heleph, from the oak in Zaanannim, and Adami-nekeb, and Jabneel, as far as Lakkum, and it ended at the Jordan.
Joshua 19:34 Then the boundary turns westward to Aznoth-tabor and goes from there to Hukkok, touching Zebulun at the south and Asher on the west and Judah on the east at the Jordan.
Joshua 19:35 The fortified cities are Ziddim, Zer, Hammath, Rakkath, Chinnereth,
Joshua 19:36 Adamah, Ramah, Hazor,
Joshua 19:37 Kedesh, Edrei, En-hazor,
Joshua 19:38 Yiron, Migdal-el, Horem, Beth-anath, and Beth-shemesh — nineteen cities with their villages.
Joshua 19:39 This is the inheritance of the tribe of the people of Naphtali according to their clans — the cities with their villages.
Joshua 19:40 The seventh lot came out for the tribe of the people of Dan, according to their clans.
Joshua 19:41 And the territory of its inheritance included Zorah, Eshtaol, Ir-shemesh,
Joshua 19:42  Aijalon, Ithlah,
Joshua 19:43 Elon, Timnah, Ekron,
Joshua 19:44 Eltekeh, Gibbethon, Baalath,
Joshua 19:45 Jehud, Bene-berak, Gath-rimmon,
Joshua 19:46 and Me-jarkon and Rakkon with the territory over against Joppa.
Joshua 19:47 When the territory of the people of Dan was lost to them, the people of Dan went up and fought against Leshem, and after capturing it and striking it with the sword they took possession of it and settled in it, calling Leshem, Dan, after the name of Dan their ancestor.
Joshua 19:48 This is the inheritance of the tribe of the people of Dan, according to their clans — these cities with their villages.
Joshua 19:49 When they had finished distributing the several territories of the land as inheritances, the people of Israel gave an inheritance among them to Joshua the son of Nun.
Joshua 19:50 By command of the LORD they gave him the city that he asked, Timnath-serah in the hill country of Ephraim. And he rebuilt the city and settled in it.
Joshua 19:51  at Shiloh before the LORD, at the entrance of the tent of meeting. So they finished dividing the land.
Joshua 20:1 Then the LORD said to Joshua,
Joshua 20:2 “Say to the people of Israel, ‘Appoint the cities of refuge, of which I spoke to you through Moses,
Joshua 20:3 that the manslayer who strikes any person without intent or unknowingly may flee there. They shall be for you a refuge from the avenger of blood.
Joshua 20:4 He shall flee to one of these cities and shall stand at the entrance of the gate of the city and explain his case to the elders of that city. Then they shall take him into the city and give him a place, and he shall remain with them.
Joshua 20:5 And if the avenger of blood pursues him, they shall not give up the manslayer into his hand, because he struck his neighbor unknowingly, and did not hate him in the past.
Joshua 20:6 And he shall remain in that city until he has stood before the congregation for judgment, until the death of him who is high priest at the time. Then the manslayer may return to his own town and his own home, to the town from which he fled.’”
Joshua 20:7 So they set apart in the hill country of Judah.
Joshua 20:8 And beyond the Jordan east of Jericho, they appointed Golan in Bashan, from the tribe of Manasseh.
Joshua 20:9 These were the cities designated for all the people of Israel and for the stranger sojourning among them, that anyone who killed a person without intent could flee there, so that he might not die by the hand of the avenger of blood, till he stood before the congregation.
Joshua 21:1 Then the heads of the fathers' houses of the Levites came to Eleazar the priest and to Joshua the son of Nun and to the heads of the fathers' houses of the tribes of the people of Israel.
Joshua 21:2 And they said to them “The LORD commanded through Moses that we be given cities to dwell in, along with their pasturelands for our livestock.”
Joshua 21:3 So by command of the LORD the people of Israel gave to the Levites the following cities and pasturelands out of their inheritance.
Joshua 21:4 The lot came out for the clans of the Kohathites. So those Levites who were descendants of Aaron the priest received by lot from the tribes of Judah, Simeon, and Benjamin, thirteen cities.
Joshua 21:5 And the rest of the Kohathites received by lot from the clans of the tribe of Ephraim, from the tribe of Dan and the half-tribe of Manasseh, ten cities.
Joshua 21:6 The Gershonites received by lot from the clans of the tribe of Issachar, from the tribe of Asher, from the tribe of Naphtali, and from the half-tribe of Manasseh in Bashan, thirteen cities.
Joshua 21:7 The Merarites according to their clans received from the tribe of Reuben, the tribe of Gad, and the tribe of Zebulun, twelve cities.
Joshua 21:8 These cities and their pasturelands the people of Israel as the LORD had commanded through Moses.
Joshua 21:9 Out of the tribe of the people of Judah and the tribe of the people of Simeon they gave the following cities mentioned by name,
Joshua 21:10 which went to the descendants of Aaron, one of the clans of the Kohathites who belonged to the people of Levi; since the lot fell to them first.
Joshua 21:11  in the hill country of Judah, along with the pasturelands around it.
Joshua 21:12 But the fields of the city and its villages had been given to Caleb the son of Jephunneh as his possession.
Joshua 21:13 And to the descendants of Aaron the priest they gave Hebron, Libnah with its pasturelands,
Joshua 21:14 Jattir with its pasturelands, Eshtemoa with its pasturelands,
Joshua 21:15 Holon with its pasturelands, Debir with its pasturelands,
Joshua 21:16 Ain with its pasturelands, Juttah with its pasturelands, Beth-shemesh with its pasturelands — nine cities out of these two tribes;
Joshua 21:17 then out of the tribe of Benjamin, Gibeon with its pasturelands, Geba with its pasturelands,
Joshua 21:18 Anathoth with its pasturelands, and Almon with its pasturelands — four cities.
Joshua 21:19 The cities of the descendants of Aaron, the priests, were in all thirteen cities with their pasturelands.
Joshua 21:20  As to the rest of the Kohathites belonging to the Kohathite clans of the Levites, the cities allotted to them were out of the tribe of Ephraim.
Joshua 21:21 To them were given Shechem, the city of refuge for the manslayer, with its pasturelands in the hill country of Ephraim, Gezer with its pasturelands,
Joshua 21:22 Kibzaim with its pasturelands, Beth-horon with its pasturelands — four cities;
Joshua 21:23 and out of the tribe of Dan, Elteke with its pasturelands, Gibbethon with its pasturelands,
Joshua 21:24 Aijalon with its pasturelands, Gath-rimmon with its pasturelands — four cities;
Joshua 21:25 and out of the half-tribe of Manasseh, Taanach with its pasturelands, and Gath-rimmon with its pasturelands — two cities.
Joshua 21:26 The cities of the clans of the rest of the Kohathites were ten in all with their pasturelands.
Joshua 21:27  the city of refuge for the manslayer, and Beeshterah with its pasturelands — two cities;
Joshua 21:28 and out of the tribe of Issachar, Kishion with its pasturelands, Daberath with its pasturelands,
Joshua 21:29 Jarmuth with its pasturelands, En-gannim with its pasturelands — four cities;
Joshua 21:30 and out of the tribe of Asher, Mishal with its pasturelands, Abdon with its pasturelands,
Joshua 21:31 Helkath with its pasturelands, and Rehob with its pasturelands — four cities;
Joshua 21:32 and out of the tribe of Naphtali, Kedesh in Galilee with its pasturelands, the city of refuge for the manslayer, Hammoth-dor with its pasturelands, and Kartan with its pasturelands — three cities.
Joshua 21:33 The cities of the several clans of the Gershonites were in all thirteen cities with their pasturelands.
Joshua 21:34  And to the rest of the Levites, the Merarite clans, were given out of the tribe of Zebulun, Jokneam with its pasturelands, Kartah with its pasturelands,
Joshua 21:35 Dimnah with its pasturelands, Nahalal with its pasturelands — four cities;
Joshua 21:36 and out of the tribe of Reuben, Bezer with its pasturelands, Jahaz with its pasturelands,
Joshua 21:37 Kedemoth with its pasturelands, and Mephaath with its pasturelands — four cities;
Joshua 21:38 and out of the tribe of Gad, Mahanaim with its pasturelands,
Joshua 21:39  Heshbon with its pasturelands, Jazer with its pasturelands — four cities in all.
Joshua 21:40 As for the cities of the several Merarite clans, that is, the remainder of the clans of the Levites, those allotted to them were in all twelve cities.
Joshua 21:41  The cities of the Levites in the midst of the possession of the people of Israel were in all forty-eight cities with their pasturelands.
Joshua 21:42 These cities each had its pasturelands around it. So it was with all these cities.
Joshua 21:43  Thus the LORD gave to Israel all the land that he swore to give to their fathers. And they took possession of it, and they settled there.
Joshua 21:44  the LORD had given all their enemies into their hands.
Joshua 21:45  Not one word of all the good promises that the LORD had made to the house of Israel had failed; all came to pass.
Joshua 22:1 At that time Joshua summoned the Reubenites and the Gadites and the half-tribe of Manasseh,
Joshua 22:2 and said to them, “You have kept and have obeyed my voice in all that I have commanded you.
Joshua 22:3 You have not forsaken your brothers these many days, down to this day, but have been careful to keep the charge of the LORD your God.
Joshua 22:4  which Moses the servant of the LORD gave you on the other side of the Jordan.
Joshua 22:5  to love the LORD your God, and to walk in all his ways and to keep his commandments and to cling to him and to serve him with all your heart and with all your soul.”
Joshua 22:6 So Joshua blessed them and sent them away, and they went to their tents.
Joshua 22:7 Now to the one half of the tribe of Manasseh Moses had given a possession in Bashan, but to the other half Joshua had given a possession beside their brothers in the land west of the Jordan. And when Joshua sent them away to their homes and blessed them,
Joshua 22:8 he said to them, “Go back to your tents with much wealth and with very much livestock, with silver, gold, bronze, and iron, and with much clothing. Divide the spoil of your enemies with your brothers.”
Joshua 22:9 So the people of Reuben and the people of Gad and the half-tribe of Manasseh returned home, parting from the people of Israel at Shiloh, which is in the land of Canaan, to go to the land of Gilead, their own land of which they had possessed themselves by command of the LORD through Moses.
Joshua 22:10 And when they came to the region of the Jordan that is in the land of Canaan, the people of Reuben and the people of Gad and the half-tribe of Manasseh built there an altar by the Jordan, an altar of imposing size.
Joshua 22:11 And the people of Israel heard it said, “Behold, the people of Reuben and the people of Gad and the half-tribe of Manasseh have built the altar at the frontier of the land of Canaan, in the region about the Jordan, on the side that belongs to the people of Israel.”
Joshua 22:12 And when the people of Israel heard of it, the whole assembly of the people of Israel gathered at Shiloh to make war against them.
Joshua 22:13 Then the people of Israel sent to the people of Reuben and the people of Gad and the half-tribe of Manasseh, in the land of Gilead, Phinehas the son of Eleazar the priest,
Joshua 22:14 and with him ten chiefs, one from each of the tribal families of Israel, every one of them the head of a family among the clans of Israel.
Joshua 22:15 And they came to the people of Reuben, the people of Gad, and the half-tribe of Manasseh, in the land of Gilead, and they said to them,
Joshua 22:16 “Thus says the whole congregation of the LORD, ‘What is this breach of faith that you have committed against the God of Israel in turning away this day from following the LORD by building yourselves an altar this day in rebellion against the LORD?
Joshua 22:17 Have we not had enough of the sin at Peor from which even yet we have not cleansed ourselves, and for which there came a plague upon the congregation of the LORD,
Joshua 22:18 that you too must turn away this day from following the LORD? And if he will be angry with the whole congregation of Israel.
Joshua 22:19 But now, if the land of your possession is unclean, pass over into the LORD's land Only do not rebel against the LORD or make us as rebels by building for yourselves an altar other than the altar of the LORD our God.
Joshua 22:20  wrath fell upon all the congregation of Israel? And he did not perish alone for his iniquity.’”
Joshua 22:21 Then the people of Reuben, the people of Gad, and the half-tribe of Manasseh said in answer to the heads of the families of Israel,
Joshua 22:22 “The Mighty One, He knows; and let Israel itself know! If it was in rebellion or in breach of faith against the LORD, do not spare us today
Joshua 22:23 for building an altar to turn away from following the LORD. Or if we did so to offer burnt offerings or grain offerings or peace offerings on it, may the LORD himself take vengeance.
Joshua 22:24 No, but we did it from fear that in time to come your children might say to our children, ‘What have you to do with the LORD, the God of Israel?
Joshua 22:25 For the LORD has made the Jordan a boundary between us and you, you people of Reuben and people of Gad. You have no portion in the LORD.’ So your children might make our children cease to worship the LORD.
Joshua 22:26 Therefore we said, ‘Let us now build an altar, not for burnt offering, nor for sacrifice,
Joshua 22:27 but to be do perform the service of the LORD in his presence with our burnt offerings and sacrifices and peace offerings, so your children will not say to our children in time to come, “You have no portion in the LORD.”’
Joshua 22:28 And we thought, ‘If this should be said to us or to our descendants in time to come, we should say, “Behold, the copy of the altar of the LORD, which our fathers made, not for burnt offerings, nor for sacrifice, but to be a witness between us and you.”’
Joshua 22:29 Far be it from us that we should by building an altar for burnt offering, grain offering, or sacrifice, other than the altar of the LORD our God that stands before his tabernacle!”
Joshua 22:30 When it was good in their eyes.
Joshua 22:31 And Phinehas the son of Eleazar the priest said to the people of Reuben and the people of Gad and the people of Manasseh, “Today we know that the LORD is in our midst, because you have not committed this breach of faith against the LORD. Now you have delivered the people of Israel from the hand of the LORD.”
Joshua 22:32 Then Phinehas the son of Eleazar the priest, and the chiefs, returned from the people of Reuben and the people of Gad in the land of Gilead to the land of Canaan, to the people of Israel, and brought back word to them.
Joshua 22:33 And the report blessed God and spoke no more of making war against them to destroy the land where the people of Reuben and the people of Gad were settled.
Joshua 22:34 The people of Reuben and the people of Gad called the altar Witness, “For,” they said, “it is a witness between us that the LORD is God.”
Joshua 23:1 A long time afterward, when the LORD had given was old and well advanced in years,
Joshua 23:2 Joshua summoned all Israel, its elders and heads, its judges and officers, and said to them, “I am now old and well advanced in years.
Joshua 23:3 And you have seen all that the LORD your God has done to all these nations for your sake, for it is the LORD your God who has fought for you.
Joshua 23:4 Behold, I have allotted to you as an inheritance for your tribes those nations that remain, along with all the nations that I have already cut off, from the Jordan to the Great Sea in the west.
Joshua 23:5 The LORD your God just as the LORD your God promised you.
Joshua 23:6 Therefore, turning aside from it neither to the right hand nor to the left,
Joshua 23:7  or swear by them or serve them or bow down to them,
Joshua 23:8  but you shall cling to the LORD your God just as you have done to this day.
Joshua 23:9  no man has been able to stand before you to this day.
Joshua 23:10  who fights for you, just as he promised you.
Joshua 23:11  Be very careful, therefore, to love the LORD your God.
Joshua 23:12 For if you turn back and cling to the remnant of these nations remaining among you and make marriages with them, so that you associate with them and they with you,
Joshua 23:13 know for certain that but they shall be a snare and a trap for you, a whip on your sides and thorns in your eyes, until you perish from off this good ground that the LORD your God has given you.
Joshua 23:14 “And now  that the LORD your God promised concerning you. All have come to pass for you; not one of them has failed.
Joshua 23:15 But just as all the good things that the LORD your God promised concerning you have been fulfilled for you, so the LORD will bring upon you all the evil things, until he has destroyed you from off this good land that the LORD your God has given you,
Joshua 23:16 if you transgress the covenant of the LORD your God, which he commanded you, and go and serve other gods and bow down to them. Then the anger of the LORD will be kindled against you, and you shall perish quickly from off the good land that he has given to you.”
Joshua 24:1 Joshua gathered all the tribes of Israel they presented themselves before God.
Joshua 24:2 And Joshua said to all the people, “Thus says the LORD, the God of Israel, ‘Long ago, they served other gods.
Joshua 24:3  I gave him Isaac.
Joshua 24:4 And to Isaac I gave but Jacob and his children went down to Egypt.
Joshua 24:5  afterward I brought you out.
Joshua 24:6 “‘Then And the Egyptians pursued your fathers with chariots and horsemen to the Red Sea.
Joshua 24:7  And you lived in the wilderness a long time.
Joshua 24:8 Then I brought you to the land of the Amorites, who lived on the other side of the Jordan. They fought with you, and I gave them into your hand, and you took possession of their land, and I destroyed them before you.
Joshua 24:9  And he sent and invited Balaam the son of Beor to curse you,
Joshua 24:10  Indeed, he blessed you. So I delivered you out of his hand.
Joshua 24:11  the Amorites, the Perizzites, the Canaanites, the Hittites, the Girgashites, the Hivites, and the Jebusites. And I gave them into your hand.
Joshua 24:12 And I sent not by your sword or by your bow.
Joshua 24:13 I gave you a land on which you had not labored and cities that you had not built, and you dwell in them. You eat the fruit of vineyards and olive orchards that you did not plant.’
Joshua 24:14  Put away the gods that your fathers served beyond the River and in Egypt, and serve the LORD.
Joshua 24:15  But as for me and my house, we will serve the LORD.”
Joshua 24:16 Then the people answered, “Far be it from us that we should forsake the LORD to serve other gods,
Joshua 24:17 for it is the LORD our God who brought us and our fathers up from the land of Egypt, out of the house of slavery, and who did those great signs in our sight and preserved us in all the way that we went, and among all the peoples through whom we passed.
Joshua 24:18 And the LORD drove out before us all the peoples, the Amorites who lived in the land. Therefore we also will serve the LORD, for he is our God.”
Joshua 24:19 But Joshua said to the people, “You are not able to serve the LORD, for he is he will not forgive your transgressions or your sins.
Joshua 24:20  he will turn and do you harm and consume you, after having done you good.”
Joshua 24:21 And the people said to Joshua, “No, but we will serve the LORD.”
Joshua 24:22 Then Joshua said to the people, “You are witnesses against yourselves that you have chosen the LORD, to serve him.” And they said, “We are witnesses.”
Joshua 24:23 He said, “Then put away the foreign gods that are among you, and incline your heart to the LORD, the God of Israel.”
Joshua 24:24 And the people said to Joshua, “The LORD our God we will serve, and his voice we will obey.”
Joshua 24:25 So Joshua statutes and rules for them at Shechem.
Joshua 24:26 And Joshua under the terebinth that was by the sanctuary of the LORD.
Joshua 24:27 And Joshua said to all the people, “Behold, it has heard all the words of the LORD that he spoke to us. Therefore it shall be a witness against you, lest you deal falsely with your God.”
Joshua 24:28 So Joshua sent the people away, every man to his inheritance.
Joshua 24:29  After these things Joshua the son of Nun, the servant of the LORD, died, being 110 years old.
Joshua 24:30 And they buried him in his own inheritance at Timnath-serah, which is in the hill country of Ephraim, north of the mountain of Gaash.
Joshua 24:31  and had known all the work that the LORD did for Israel.
Joshua 24:32   It became an inheritance of the descendants of Joseph.
Joshua 24:33 And Eleazar the son of Aaron died, and they buried him at Gibeah, the town of the hill country of Ephraim.
Judges 1:1 After the death of Joshua, the people of Israel “Who shall go up first for us against the Canaanites, to fight against them?”
Judges 1:2 The LORD said, “Judah shall go up; behold, I have given the land into his hand.”
Judges 1:3 And Judah said to Simeon his brother, “Come up with me into the territory allotted to me, that we may fight against the Canaanites. And I likewise will go with you into the territory allotted to you.” So Simeon went with him.
Judges 1:4 Then Judah went up and the LORD gave the Canaanites and the Perizzites into their hand, and they defeated 10,000 of them at Bezek.
Judges 1:5 They found Adoni-bezek at Bezek and fought against him and defeated the Canaanites and the Perizzites.
Judges 1:6 Adoni-bezek fled, but they pursued him and caught him and cut off his thumbs and his big toes.
Judges 1:7 And Adoni-bezek said, “Seventy kings with their thumbs and their big toes cut off As I have done, so God has repaid me.” And they brought him to Jerusalem, and he died there.
Judges 1:8  And the men of Judah fought against Jerusalem and captured it and struck it with the edge of the sword and set the city on fire.
Judges 1:9 And afterward the men of Judah went down to fight against the Canaanites who lived in the lowland.
Judges 1:10  Sheshai and Ahiman and Talmai.
Judges 1:11 From there they went against the inhabitants of Debir. The name of Debir was formerly Kiriath-sepher.
Judges 1:12 And Caleb said, “He who attacks Kiriath-sepher and captures it, I will give him Achsah my daughter for a wife.”
Judges 1:13 And Othniel the son of Kenaz, Caleb's younger brother, captured it. And he gave him Achsah his daughter for a wife.
Judges 1:14 When she came to him, she urged him to ask her father for a field. And she dismounted from her donkey, and Caleb said to her, “What do you want?”
Judges 1:15 She said to him, “Give me a blessing. Since you have set me in the land of the Negeb, give me also springs of water.” And Caleb gave her the upper springs and the lower springs.
Judges 1:16 And the descendants of the and they went and settled with the people.
Judges 1:17
Judges 1:18 Judah also captured Gaza with its territory, and Ashkelon with its territory, and Ekron with its territory.
Judges 1:19  chariots of iron.
Judges 1:20  the three sons of Anak.
Judges 1:21 But the people of Benjamin did not drive out the Jebusites who lived in Jerusalem, so the Jebusites have lived with the people of Benjamin in Jerusalem to this day.
Judges 1:22 The house of Joseph also went up against Bethel, and the LORD was with them.
Judges 1:23 And the house of Joseph scouted out Bethel. (Now the name of the city was formerly Luz.)
Judges 1:24 And the spies saw a man coming out of the city, and they said to him, “Please show us the way into the city, and we will deal kindly with you.”
Judges 1:25 And he showed them the way into the city. And they struck the city with the edge of the sword, but they let the man and all his family go.
Judges 1:26 And the man went to the land of the Hittites and built a city and called its name Luz. That is its name to this day.
Judges 1:27  Manasseh did not drive out the inhabitants of Beth-shean and its villages, or Taanach and its villages, or the inhabitants of Dor and its villages, or the inhabitants of Ibleam and its villages, or the inhabitants of Megiddo and its villages, for the Canaanites persisted in dwelling in that land.
Judges 1:28 When Israel grew strong, they put the Canaanites to forced labor, but did not drive them out completely.
Judges 1:29  And Ephraim did not drive out the Canaanites who lived in Gezer, so the Canaanites lived in Gezer among them.
Judges 1:30 Zebulun did not drive out the inhabitants of Kitron, or the inhabitants of Nahalol, so the Canaanites lived among them, but became subject to forced labor.
Judges 1:31  Asher did not drive out the inhabitants of Acco, or the inhabitants of Sidon or of Ahlab or of Achzib or of Helbah or of Aphik or of Rehob,
Judges 1:32 so the Asherites lived among the Canaanites, the inhabitants of the land, for they did not drive them out.
Judges 1:33 Naphtali did not drive out the inhabitants of Beth-shemesh, or the inhabitants of Beth-anath, so they lived among the Canaanites, the inhabitants of the land. Nevertheless, the inhabitants of Beth-shemesh and of Beth-anath became subject to forced labor for them.
Judges 1:34  The Amorites pressed the people of Dan back into the hill country, for they did not allow them to come down to the plain.
Judges 1:35 The Amorites persisted in dwelling in Mount Heres, in Aijalon, and in Shaalbim, but the hand of the house of Joseph rested heavily on them, and they became subject to forced labor.
Judges 1:36 And the border of the Amorites ran from the ascent of Akrabbim, from Sela and upward.
Judges 2:1 Now the angel of the LORD went up from Gilgal to ‘I will never break my covenant with you,
Judges 2:2  you shall break down their altars.’ But you have not obeyed my voice. What is this you have done?
Judges 2:3 So now I say, thorns in your sides, and their gods shall be a snare to you.”
Judges 2:4 As soon as the angel of the LORD spoke these words to all the people of Israel, the people lifted up their voices and wept.
Judges 2:5 And they called the name of that place Bochim.  And they sacrificed there to the LORD.
Judges 2:6 When Joshua dismissed the people, the people of Israel went each to his inheritance to take possession of the land.
Judges 2:7  And the people served the LORD all the days of Joshua, and all the days of the elders who outlived Joshua, who had seen all the great work that the LORD had done for Israel.
Judges 2:8 And Joshua the son of Nun, the servant of the LORD, died at the age of 110 years.
Judges 2:9 And they buried him within the boundaries of in the hill country of Ephraim, north of the mountain of Gaash.
Judges 2:10 And all that generation also were gathered to their fathers. And there arose another generation after them who did not know the LORD or the work that he had done for Israel.
Judges 2:11  And the people of Israel did what was evil in the sight of the LORD and served the Baals.
Judges 2:12  And they provoked the LORD to anger.
Judges 2:13 They abandoned the LORD and served the Baals and the Ashtaroth.
Judges 2:14  so that they could no longer withstand their enemies.
Judges 2:15 Whenever they marched out, the hand of the LORD was against them for harm, as the LORD had warned, and as the LORD had sworn to them. And they were in terrible distress.
Judges 2:16  who saved them out of the hand of those who plundered them.
Judges 2:17 Yet they did not listen to their judges, for They soon turned aside from the way in which their fathers had walked, who had obeyed the commandments of the LORD, and they did not do so.
Judges 2:18 Whenever the LORD raised up judges for them, their groaning because of those who afflicted and oppressed them.
Judges 2:19 But whenever the judge died, they turned back and were more corrupt than their fathers, going after other gods, serving them and bowing down to them. They did not drop any of their practices or their stubborn ways.
Judges 2:20  have transgressed my covenant that I commanded their fathers and have not obeyed my voice,
Judges 2:21  I will no longer drive out before them any of the nations that Joshua left when he died,
Judges 2:22 in order to test Israel by them, whether they will take care to walk in the way of the LORD as their fathers did, or not.”
Judges 2:23 So the LORD left those nations, not driving them out quickly, and he did not give them into the hand of Joshua.
Judges 3:1  Now these are the nations that the LORD left, to test Israel by them, that is, all in Israel who had not experienced all the wars in Canaan.
Judges 3:2 It was only in order that the generations of the people of Israel might know war, to teach war to those who had not known it before.
Judges 3:3 These are the nations: the five lords of the Philistines and all the Canaanites and the Sidonians and the Hivites who lived on Mount Lebanon, from Mount Baal-hermon as far as Lebo-hamath.
Judges 3:4 They were for the testing of Israel, to know whether Israel would obey the commandments of the LORD, which he commanded their fathers by the hand of Moses.
Judges 3:5 So the people of Israel lived among the Canaanites, the Hittites, the Amorites, the Perizzites, the Hivites, and the Jebusites.
Judges 3:6  And their daughters they took to themselves for wives, and their own daughters they gave to their sons, and they served their gods.
Judges 3:7  the Asheroth.
Judges 3:8 Therefore the anger of the LORD was kindled against Israel, Cushan-rishathaim king of Mesopotamia. And the people of Israel served Cushan-rishathaim eight years.
Judges 3:9 But when the people of Israel Othniel the son of Kenaz, Caleb's younger brother.
Judges 3:10  The Spirit of the LORD was upon him, and he judged Israel. He went out to war, and the LORD gave Cushan-rishathaim king of Mesopotamia into his hand. And his hand prevailed over Cushan-rishathaim.
Judges 3:11  So the land had rest forty years. Then Othniel the son of Kenaz died.
Judges 3:12  the king of Moab against Israel, because they had done what was evil in the sight of the LORD.
Judges 3:13 He gathered to himself the Ammonites and the the city of palms.
Judges 3:14 And the people of Israel served Eglon the king of Moab eighteen years.
Judges 3:15 Then the people of Israel a left-handed man. The people of Israel sent tribute by him to Eglon the king of Moab.
Judges 3:16 And Ehud made for himself a sword with two edges, a cubit  in length, and he bound it on his right thigh under his clothes.
Judges 3:17 And he presented the tribute to Eglon king of Moab. Now Eglon was a very fat man.
Judges 3:18 And when Ehud had finished presenting the tribute, he sent away the people who carried the tribute.
Judges 3:19 But he himself turned back at the idols near Gilgal and said, “I have a secret message for you, O king.” And he commanded, “Silence.” And all his attendants went out from his presence.
Judges 3:20 And Ehud came to him as he was sitting alone in his And Ehud said, “I have a message from God for you.” And he arose from his seat.
Judges 3:21 And Ehud reached with his left hand, took the sword from his right thigh, and thrust it into his belly.
Judges 3:22 And the hilt also went in after the blade, and the fat closed over the blade, for he did not pull the sword out of his belly; and the dung came out.
Judges 3:23 Then Ehud went out into the porch and locked them.
Judges 3:24 When he had gone, the servants came, and when they saw that the doors of the roof chamber were locked, they thought, “Surely he is relieving himself in the closet of the cool chamber.”
Judges 3:25 And they waited till they were embarrassed. But when he still did not open the doors of the roof chamber, they took the key and opened them, and there lay their lord dead on the floor.
Judges 3:26 Ehud escaped while they delayed, and he passed beyond the idols and escaped to Seirah.
Judges 3:27 When he arrived, the hill country of Ephraim. Then the people of Israel went down with him from the hill country, and he was their leader.
Judges 3:28 And he said to them, “Follow after me, the fords of the Jordan against the Moabites and did not allow anyone to pass over.
Judges 3:29 And they killed at that time about 10,000 of the Moabites, all strong, able-bodied men; not a man escaped.
Judges 3:30 So Moab was subdued that day under the hand of Israel. And the land had rest for eighty years.
Judges 3:31 After him was saved Israel.
Judges 4:1  And the people of Israel again did what was evil in the sight of the LORD after Ehud died.
Judges 4:2 And the LORD Harosheth-hagoyim.
Judges 4:3 Then the people of Israel 900 chariots of iron and he oppressed the people of Israel cruelly for twenty years.
Judges 4:4 Now Deborah, a prophetess, the wife of Lappidoth, was judging Israel at that time.
Judges 4:5 She used to sit under the palm of Deborah between Ramah and Bethel in the hill country of Ephraim, and the people of Israel came up to her for judgment.
Judges 4:6 She sent and summoned Tabor, taking 10,000 from the people of Naphtali and the people of Zebulun.
Judges 4:7 And I will draw out Sisera, the general of Jabin's army, to meet you by and I will give him into your hand’?”
Judges 4:8 Barak said to her, “If you will go with me, I will go, but if you will not go with me, I will not go.”
Judges 4:9 And she said, “I will surely go with you. Nevertheless, the road on which you are going will not lead to your glory, for the LORD will sell Sisera into the hand of a woman.” Then Deborah arose and went with Barak to Kedesh.
Judges 4:10 And Barak called out Zebulun and Naphtali to Kedesh. And 10,000 men went up at his heels, and Deborah went up with him.
Judges 4:11 Now Heber Zaanannim, which is near Kedesh.
Judges 4:12 When Sisera was told that Barak the son of Abinoam had gone up to Mount Tabor,
Judges 4:13 Sisera called out all his chariots, 900 chariots of iron, and all the men who were with him, from Harosheth-hagoyim to the river Kishon.
Judges 4:14 And Deborah said to Barak, “Up! For this is the day in which Does not the LORD go out before you?” So Barak went down from Mount Tabor with 10,000 men following him.
Judges 4:15  And the LORD routed Sisera and all his chariots and all his army before Barak by the edge of the sword. And Sisera got down from his chariot and fled away on foot.
Judges 4:16 And Barak pursued the chariots and the army to Harosheth-hagoyim, and all the army of Sisera fell by the edge of the sword; not a man was left.
Judges 4:17 But Sisera fled away on foot to the tent of Jael, the wife of Heber the Kenite, for there was peace between Jabin the king of Hazor and the house of Heber the Kenite.
Judges 4:18 And Jael came out to meet Sisera and said to him, “Turn aside, my lord; turn aside to me; do not be afraid.” So he turned aside to her into the tent, and she covered him with a rug.
Judges 4:19 And he said to her, “Please give me a little water to drink, for I am thirsty.” So she opened a skin of milk and gave him a drink and covered him.
Judges 4:20 And he said to her, “Stand at the opening of the tent, and if any man comes and asks you, ‘Is anyone here?’ say, ‘No.’”
Judges 4:21 But Jael the wife of Heber took a tent peg, and took a hammer in her hand. Then she went softly to him and drove the peg into his temple until it went down into the ground while he was lying fast asleep from weariness. So he died.
Judges 4:22 And behold, as Barak was pursuing Sisera, Jael went out to meet him and said to him, “Come, and I will show you the man whom you are seeking.” So he went in to her tent, and there lay Sisera dead, with the tent peg in his temple.
Judges 4:23  So on that day God subdued Jabin the king of Canaan before the people of Israel.
Judges 4:24 And the hand of the people of Israel pressed harder and harder against Jabin the king of Canaan, until they destroyed Jabin king of Canaan.
Judges 5:1  Then sang Deborah and Barak the son of Abinoam on that day:
Judges 5:2 “That the leaders took the lead in Israel, that the people offered themselves willingly, bless the LORD!
Judges 5:3 “Hear, O kings; give ear, O princes; to the LORD I will sing; I will make melody to the LORD, the God of Israel.
Judges 5:4 “LORD,the earth trembled and the heavens dropped, yes, the clouds dropped water.
Judges 5:5 The mountains  the God of Israel.
Judges 5:6 “In the days of the highways were abandoned, and travelers kept to the byways.
Judges 5:7 The villagers ceased in Israel; they ceased to be until I arose; I, Deborah, arose as a mother in Israel.
Judges 5:8 Was shield or spear to be seen among forty thousand in Israel?
Judges 5:9 My heart goes out to the commanders of Israel who offered themselves willingly among the people. Bless the LORD.
Judges 5:10 “Tell of it,  and you who walk by the way.
Judges 5:11 To the sound of musicians  at the watering places, there they repeat the righteous triumphs of the LORD, the righteous triumphs of his villagers in Israel.  “Then down to the gates marched the people of the LORD.
Judges 5:12  lead away your captives, O son of Abinoam.
Judges 5:13 Then down marched the remnant of the noble; the people of the LORD marched down for me against the mighty.
Judges 5:14 From  staff;
Judges 5:15 the princes of Issachar came with Deborah, and Issachar faithful to Barak; into the valley they rushed at his heels. Among the clans of Reuben there were great searchings of heart.
Judges 5:16 Why did you sit still among the sheepfolds, to hear the whistling for the flocks? Among the clans of Reuben there were great searchings of heart.
Judges 5:17  at the coast of the sea, staying by his landings.
Judges 5:18 Naphtali, too, on the heights of the field.
Judges 5:19 “The kings came, they fought; then fought the kings of Canaan, atthey got no spoils of silver.
Judges 5:20  From heaven the stars fought, from their courses they fought against Sisera.
Judges 5:21  The torrent Kishon swept them away, the ancient torrent, the torrent Kishon. March on, my soul, with might!
Judges 5:22 “Then loud beat the horses' hoofs with the galloping, galloping of his steeds.
Judges 5:23 “Curse Meroz, says the angel of the LORD, curse its inhabitants thoroughly, because they did not come to the help of the LORD, to the help of the LORD against the mighty.
Judges 5:24 “Most blessed of women be Jael, the wife of Heber the Kenite, of tent-dwelling women most blessed.
Judges 5:25  He asked for water and she gave him milk; she brought him curds in a noble's bowl.
Judges 5:26  She sent her hand to the tent peg and her right hand to the workmen's mallet; she struck Sisera; she crushed his head; she shattered and pierced his temple.
Judges 5:27 Between her feet he sank, he fell, he lay still; between her feet he sank, he fell; where he sank, there he fell — dead.
Judges 5:28  the lattice: ‘Why is his chariot so long in coming? Why tarry the hoofbeats of his chariots?’
Judges 5:29 Her wisest princesses answer, indeed, she answers herself,
Judges 5:30 ‘Have they not found and divided the spoil? — A womb or two for every man; spoil of dyed materials for Sisera, spoil of dyed materials embroidered, two pieces of dyed work embroidered for the neck as spoil?’
Judges 5:31 And the land had rest for forty years.
Judges 6:1  Midian seven years.
Judges 6:2 And the hand of Midian overpowered Israel, and because of Midian the people of Israel made for themselves the dens that are in the mountains and the caves and the strongholds.
Judges 6:3 For whenever the Israelites planted crops, the Midianites and the people of the East would come up against them.
Judges 6:4 They would encamp against them and devour the produce of the land, as far as Gaza, and leave no sustenance in Israel and no sheep or ox or donkey.
Judges 6:5 For they would come up with their livestock and their tents; they would come like locusts in number — both they and their camels could not be counted — so that they laid waste the land as they came in.
Judges 6:6 And Israel was brought very low because of Midian. And the people of Israel cried out for help to the LORD.
Judges 6:7 When the people of Israel cried out to the LORD on account of the Midianites,
Judges 6:8 the LORD sent a prophet to the people of Israel. And he said to them, “Thus says the LORD, the God of Israel: I led you up from Egypt and brought you out of the house of slavery.
Judges 6:9 And I delivered you from the hand of the Egyptians and from the hand of all who oppressed you, and drove them out before you and gave you their land.
Judges 6:10 And I said to you, ‘I am the LORD your God; you shall not fear the gods of the Amorites in whose land you dwell.’ But you have not obeyed my voice.”
Judges 6:11 Now the angel of the LORD came and sat under the terebinth at Ophrah, which belonged to Joash Gideon was beating out wheat in the winepress to hide it from the Midianites.
Judges 6:12 And “The LORD is with you, O mighty man of valor.”
Judges 6:13 And Gideon said to him, “Please, my lord, if the LORD is with us, why then has all this happened to us? And where are that our fathers recounted to us, saying, ‘Did not the LORD bring us up from Egypt?’ But now the LORD has forsaken us and given us into the hand of Midian.”
Judges 6:14 And the LORD do not I send you?”
Judges 6:15 And he said to him, my clan is the weakest in Manasseh, and I am the least in my father's house.”
Judges 6:16 And the LORD said to him, “But I will be with you, and you shall strike the Midianites as one man.”
Judges 6:17 And he said to him, show me a sign that it is you who speak with me.
Judges 6:18 Please do not depart from here until I come to you and bring out my present and set it before you.” And he said, “I will stay till you return.”
Judges 6:19 So Gideon went into his house  of flour. The meat he put in a basket, and the broth he put in a pot, and brought them to him under the terebinth and presented them.
Judges 6:20 And the angel of God said to him, “Take the meat and the unleavened cakes, and put them pour the broth over them.” And he did so.
Judges 6:21 Then the angel of the LORD reached out the tip of the staff that was in his hand and touched the meat and the unleavened cakes. And fire sprang up from the rock and consumed the meat and the unleavened cakes. And the angel of the LORD vanished from his sight.
Judges 6:22 Then Gideon perceived that he was the angel of the LORD. And Gideon said, “Alas, O Lord GOD! For now I have seen the angel of the LORD face to face.”
Judges 6:23 But the LORD said to him, “Peace be to you. Do not fear; you shall not die.”
Judges 6:24 Then Gideon built an altar there to the LORD and called it, Ophrah, which belongs to the Abiezrites.
Judges 6:25 That night the LORD said to him, “Take your father's bull, and the second bull seven years old, and pull down the altar of Baal that your father has, and cut down the Asherah that is beside it
Judges 6:26 and build an altar to the LORD your God on the top of the stronghold here, with stones laid in due order. Then take the second bull and offer it as a burnt offering with the wood of the Asherah that you shall cut down.”
Judges 6:27 So Gideon took ten men of his servants and did as the LORD had told him. But because he was too afraid of his family and the men of the town to do it by day, he did it by night.
Judges 6:28 When the men of the town rose early in the morning, behold, the altar of Baal was broken down, and the Asherah beside it was cut down, and the second bull was offered on the altar that had been built.
Judges 6:29 And they said to one another, “Who has done this thing?” And after they had searched and inquired, they said, “Gideon the son of Joash has done this thing.”
Judges 6:30 Then the men of the town said to Joash, “Bring out your son, that he may die, for he has broken down the altar of Baal and cut down the Asherah beside it.”
Judges 6:31 But Joash said to all who stood against him, “Will you contend for Baal? Or will you save him? Whoever contends for him shall be put to death by morning. If he is a god, let him contend for himself, because his altar has been broken down.”
Judges 6:32 Therefore on that day Gideon Jerubbaal, that is to say, “Let Baal contend against him,” because he broke down his altar.
Judges 6:33 Now the Valley of Jezreel.
Judges 6:34 But and he sounded the trumpet, and the Abiezrites were called out to follow him.
Judges 6:35  And he sent messengers to Asher, Zebulun, and Naphtali, and they went up to meet them.
Judges 6:36  Then Gideon said to God, “If you will save Israel by my hand, as you have said,
Judges 6:37 behold, I am laying a fleece of wool on the threshing floor. If there is dew on the fleece alone, and it is dry on all the ground, then I shall know that you will save Israel by my hand, as you have said.”
Judges 6:38 And it was so. When he rose early next morning and squeezed the fleece, he wrung enough dew from the fleece to fill a bowl with water.
Judges 6:39 Then Gideon said to God, “Let not your anger burn against me; let me speak just once more. Please let me test just once more with the fleece. Please let it be dry on the fleece only, and on all the ground let there be dew.”
Judges 6:40 And God did so that night; and it was dry on the fleece only, and on all the ground there was dew.
Judges 7:1 Then by the hill of Moreh, in the valley.
Judges 7:2 The LORD said to Gideon, “The people with you are too many for me to give the Midianites into their hand, lest Israel boast over me, saying, ‘My own hand has saved me.’
Judges 7:3 Now therefore proclaim in the ears of the people, saying, ‘Whoever is fearful and trembling, let him return home and hurry away from Mount Gilead.’” Then 22,000 of the people returned, and 10,000 remained.
Judges 7:4 And the LORD said to Gideon, “The people are still too many. Take them down to the water, and I will test them for you there, and anyone of whom I say to you, ‘This one shall go with you,’ shall go with you, and anyone of whom I say to you, ‘This one shall not go with you,’ shall not go.”
Judges 7:5 So he brought the people down to the water. And the LORD said to Gideon, “Every one who laps the water with his tongue, as a dog laps, you shall set by himself. Likewise, every one who kneels down to drink.”
Judges 7:6 And the number of those who lapped, putting their hands to their mouths, was 300 men, but all the rest of the people knelt down to drink water.
Judges 7:7 And the LORD said to Gideon, “With the 300 men who lapped I will save you and give the Midianites into your hand, and let all the others go every man to his home.”
Judges 7:8 So the people took provisions in their hands, and their trumpets. And he sent all the rest of Israel every man to his tent, but retained the 300 men. And the camp of Midian was below him in the valley.
Judges 7:9 That same for I have given it into your hand.
Judges 7:10 But if you are afraid to go down, go down to the camp with Purah your servant.
Judges 7:11  Then he went down with Purah his servant to the outposts of the armed men who were in the camp.
Judges 7:12 And the Midianites and the Amalekites and as the sand that is on the seashore in abundance.
Judges 7:13 When Gideon came, behold, a man was telling a dream to his comrade. And he said, “Behold, I dreamed a dream, and behold, a cake of barley bread tumbled into the camp of Midian and came to the tent and struck it so that it fell and turned it upside down, so that the tent lay flat.”
Judges 7:14 And his comrade answered, “This is no other than the sword of Gideon the son of Joash, a man of Israel; God has given into his hand Midian and all the camp.”
Judges 7:15 As soon as Gideon heard the telling of the dream and its interpretation, he worshiped. And he returned to the camp of Israel and said, “Arise, for the LORD has given the host of Midian into your hand.”
Judges 7:16 And he divided the 300 men into three companies and put trumpets into the hands of all of them and empty jars, with torches inside the jars.
Judges 7:17 And he said to them, “Look at me, and do likewise. When I come to the outskirts of the camp, do as I do.
Judges 7:18 When I blow the trumpet, I and all who are with me, then blow the trumpets also on every side of all the camp and shout, ‘For the LORD and for Gideon.’”
Judges 7:19 So Gideon and the hundred men who were with him came to the outskirts of the camp at the beginning of the middle watch, when they had just set the watch. And they blew the trumpets and smashed the jars that were in their hands.
Judges 7:20 Then the three companies blew the trumpets and broke the jars. They held in their left hands the torches, and in their right hands the trumpets to blow. And they cried out, “A sword for the LORD and for Gideon!”
Judges 7:21 Every man stood in his place around the camp, and all the army ran. They cried out and fled.
Judges 7:22   as far as the border of Abel-meholah, by Tabbath.
Judges 7:23 And the men of Israel were called out from Naphtali and from Asher and from all Manasseh, and they pursued after Midian.
Judges 7:24  Beth-barah, and also the Jordan.” So all the men of Ephraim were called out, and they captured the waters as far as Beth-barah, and also the Jordan.
Judges 7:25 And they captured across the Jordan.
Judges 8:1  Then the men of Ephraim said to him, “What is this that you have done to us, not to call us when you went to fight against Midian?” And they accused him fiercely.
Judges 8:2 And he said to them, “What have I done now in comparison with you? Is not the gleaning of the grapes of Ephraim better than the grape harvest of Abiezer?
Judges 8:3   against him subsided when he said this.
Judges 8:4 And Gideon came to the Jordan and crossed over, he and the 300 men who were with him, exhausted yet pursuing.
Judges 8:5 So he said to the men of Succoth, “Please give loaves of bread to the people who follow me, for they are exhausted, and I am pursuing after Zebah and Zalmunna, the kings of Midian.”
Judges 8:6 And the officials of Succoth said, that we should give bread to your army?”
Judges 8:7 So Gideon said, “Well then, when the LORD has given Zebah and Zalmunna into my hand, I will flail your flesh with the thorns of the wilderness and with briers.”
Judges 8:8 And from there he went up to Penuel, and spoke to them in the same way, and the men of Penuel answered him as the men of Succoth had answered.
Judges 8:9 And he said to the men of Penuel, I will break down this tower.”
Judges 8:10 Now Zebah and Zalmunna were in Karkor with their army, about 15,000 men, all who were left of all the army of who drew the sword.
Judges 8:11 And Gideon went up by the way of the tent dwellers east of secure.
Judges 8:12 And Zebah and Zalmunna fled, and he pursued them and captured the two kings of Midian, Zebah and Zalmunna, and he threw all the army into a panic.
Judges 8:13 Then Gideon the son of Joash returned from the battle by the ascent of Heres.
Judges 8:14 And he captured a young man of Succoth and questioned him. And he wrote down for him the officials and elders of Succoth, seventy-seven men.
Judges 8:15 And he came to the men of Succoth and said, “Behold Zebah and Zalmunna, about whom you taunted me, saying, ‘Are the hands of Zebah and Zalmunna already in your hand, that we should give bread to your men who are exhausted?’”
Judges 8:16 And he took the elders of the city, and he took thorns of the wilderness and briers and with them taught the men of Succoth a lesson.
Judges 8:17  And he broke down the tower of Penuel and killed the men of the city.
Judges 8:18 Then he said to Zebah and Zalmunna, “Where are the men whom you killed at Tabor?” They answered, “As you are, so were they. Every one of them resembled the son of a king.”
Judges 8:19 And he said, “They were my brothers, the sons of my mother. As the LORD lives, if you had saved them alive, I would not kill you.”
Judges 8:20 So he said to Jether his firstborn, “Rise and kill them!” But the young man did not draw his sword, for he was afraid, because he was still a young man.
Judges 8:21 Then Zebah and Zalmunna said, “Rise yourself and fall upon us, for as the man is, so is his strength.” And Gideon arose and the crescent ornaments that were on the necks of their camels.
Judges 8:22 Then the men of Israel said to Gideon, “Rule over us, you and your son and your grandson also, for you have saved us from the hand of Midian.”
Judges 8:23 Gideon said to them, “I will not rule over you, and my son will not rule over you; the LORD will rule over you.”
Judges 8:24 And Gideon said to them, “Let me make a request of you: every one of you give me the earrings from his spoil.” (For they had golden earrings, because they were Ishmaelites.)
Judges 8:25 And they answered, “We will willingly give them.” And they spread a cloak, and every man threw in it the earrings of his spoil.
Judges 8:26 And the weight of the golden earrings that he requested was 1,700 shekels the pendants and the purple garments worn by the kings of Midian, and besides the collars that were around the necks of their camels.
Judges 8:27 And Gideon snare to Gideon and to his family.
Judges 8:28 So Midian was subdued before the people of Israel, and they raised their heads no more. And the land had rest forty years in the days of Gideon.
Judges 8:29  Jerubbaal the son of Joash went and lived in his own house.
Judges 8:30 Now Gideon had  for he had many wives.
Judges 8:31 And his concubine who was in Shechem also bore him a son, and he called his name Abimelech.
Judges 8:32 And Gideon the son of Joash died at Ophrah of the Abiezrites.
Judges 8:33  Baal-berith their god.
Judges 8:34 And the people of Israel did not remember the LORD their God, who had delivered them from the hand of all their enemies on every side,
Judges 8:35  and they did not show steadfast love to the family of Jerubbaal (that is, Gideon) in return for all the good that he had done to Israel.
Judges 9:1 Now Abimelech the son of Jerubbaal went to Shechem to his mother's relatives and said to them and to the whole clan of his mother's family,
Judges 9:2 “Say in the ears of all the leaders of Shechem, ‘Which is better for you, that all your bone and your flesh.”
Judges 9:3 And his mother's relatives spoke all these words on his behalf in the ears of all the leaders of Shechem, and their hearts inclined to follow Abimelech, for they said, “He is our brother.”
Judges 9:4 And they gave him seventy pieces of silver out of the house of worthless and reckless fellows, who followed him.
Judges 9:5 And he went to his father's house at and killed his brothers the sons of Jerubbaal, seventy men, on one stone. But Jotham the youngest son of Jerubbaal was left, for he hid himself.
Judges 9:6 And all the leaders of Shechem came together, and all Beth-millo, and they went and made Abimelech king, by the oak of the pillar at Shechem.
Judges 9:7 When it was told to Jotham, he went and stood on top of Mount Gerizim and cried aloud and said to them, “Listen to me, you leaders of Shechem, that God may listen to you.
Judges 9:8  ‘Reign over us.’
Judges 9:9 But the olive tree said to them, ‘Shall I leave my abundance, by which gods and men are honored, and go hold sway over the trees?’
Judges 9:10 And the trees said to the fig tree, ‘You come and reign over us.’
Judges 9:11 But the fig tree said to them, ‘Shall I leave my sweetness and my good fruit and go hold sway over the trees?’
Judges 9:12 And the trees said to the vine, ‘You come and reign over us.’
Judges 9:13 But the vine said to them, ‘Shall I leave my wine that cheers God and men and go hold sway over the trees?’
Judges 9:14 Then all the trees said to the bramble, ‘You come and reign over us.’
Judges 9:15 And the bramble said to the trees, ‘If in good faith you are anointing me king over you, then come and the cedars of Lebanon.’
Judges 9:16 “Now therefore, if you acted in good faith and integrity when you made Abimelech king, and if you have dealt well with as his deeds deserved —
Judges 9:17 for my father fought for you and risked his life and delivered you from the hand of Midian,
Judges 9:18 and you have risen up against my father's house this day because he is your relative —
Judges 9:19 if you then have acted in good faith and integrity with Jerubbaal and with his house this day, then rejoice in Abimelech, and let him also rejoice in you.
Judges 9:20 But if not, let fire come out from Abimelech and devour the leaders of Shechem and Beth-millo; and let fire come out from the leaders of Shechem and from Beth-millo and devour Abimelech.”
Judges 9:21 And Jotham ran away and fled and went to Beer and lived there, because of Abimelech his brother.
Judges 9:22 Abimelech ruled over Israel three years.
Judges 9:23  dealt treacherously with Abimelech,
Judges 9:24  that the violence done to the seventy sons of Jerubbaal might come, and their blood be laid on Abimelech their brother, who killed them, and on the men of Shechem, who strengthened his hands to kill his brothers.
Judges 9:25 And the leaders of Shechem put men in ambush against him on the mountaintops, and they robbed all who passed by them along that way. And it was told to Abimelech.
Judges 9:26 And Gaal the son of Ebed moved into Shechem with his relatives, and the leaders of Shechem put confidence in him.
Judges 9:27 And they went out into the field and gathered the grapes from their vineyards and trod them and held a festival; and they went into the house of their god and ate and drank and reviled Abimelech.
Judges 9:28 And Gaal the son of Ebed said, Hamor the father of Shechem; but why should we serve him?
Judges 9:29 Would that this people were under my hand! Then I would remove Abimelech. I would say  to Abimelech, ‘Increase your army, and come out.’”
Judges 9:30 When Zebul the ruler of the city heard the words of Gaal the son of Ebed, his anger was kindled.
Judges 9:31 And he sent messengers to Abimelech secretly,  the city against you.
Judges 9:32 Now therefore, go by night, you and the people who are with you, and set an ambush in the field.
Judges 9:33 Then in the morning, as soon as the sun is up, rise early and rush upon the city. And when he and the people who are with him come out against you, you may do to them as your hand finds to do.”
Judges 9:34 So Abimelech and all the men who were with him rose up by night and set an ambush against Shechem in four companies.
Judges 9:35 And Gaal the son of Ebed went out and stood in the entrance of the gate of the city, and Abimelech and the people who were with him rose from the ambush.
Judges 9:36 And when Gaal saw the people, he said to Zebul, “Look, people are coming down from  the shadow of the mountains for men.”
Judges 9:37 Gaal spoke again and said, “Look, people are coming down from the center of the land, and one company is coming from the direction of the Diviners' Oak.”
Judges 9:38 Then Zebul said to him, “Where is your mouth now, you who said, ‘Who is Abimelech, that we should serve him?’ Are not these the people whom you despised? Go out now and fight with them.”
Judges 9:39 And Gaal went out at the head of the leaders of Shechem and fought with Abimelech.
Judges 9:40 And Abimelech chased him, and he fled before him. And many fell wounded, up to the entrance of the gate.
Judges 9:41 And Abimelech lived at Arumah, and Zebul drove out Gaal and his relatives, so that they could not dwell at Shechem.
Judges 9:42 On the following day, the people went out into the field, and Abimelech was told.
Judges 9:43 He took his people and divided them into three companies and set an ambush in the fields. And he looked and saw the people coming out of the city. So he rose against them and killed them.
Judges 9:44 Abimelech and the company that was with him rushed forward and stood at the entrance of the gate of the city, while the two companies rushed upon all who were in the field and killed them.
Judges 9:45 And Abimelech fought against the city all that day. He captured the city and killed the people who were in it, and sowed it with salt.
Judges 9:46 When all the leaders of the Tower of Shechem heard of it, they entered El-berith.
Judges 9:47 Abimelech was told that all the leaders of the Tower of Shechem were gathered together.
Judges 9:48 And Abimelech went up to Mount Zalmon, he and all the people who were with him. And Abimelech took an axe in his hand and cut down a bundle of brushwood and took it up and laid it on his shoulder. And he said to the men who were with him, “What you have seen me do, hurry and do as I have done.”
Judges 9:49 So every one of the people cut down his bundle and following Abimelech put it against the stronghold, and they set the stronghold on fire over them, so that all the people of the Tower of Shechem also died, about 1,000 men and women.
Judges 9:50 Then Abimelech went to Thebez and encamped against Thebez and captured it.
Judges 9:51 But there was a strong tower within the city, and all the men and women and all the leaders of the city fled to it and shut themselves in, and they went up to the roof of the tower.
Judges 9:52 And Abimelech came to the tower and fought against it and drew near to the door of the tower to burn it with fire.
Judges 9:53  And a certain woman threw an upper millstone on Abimelech's head and crushed his skull.
Judges 9:54  Then he called quickly to the young man his armor-bearer and said to him, “Draw your sword and kill me, lest they say of me, ‘A woman killed him.’” And his young man thrust him through, and he died.
Judges 9:55 And when the men of Israel saw that Abimelech was dead, everyone departed to his home.
Judges 9:56  Thus God returned the evil of Abimelech, which he committed against his father in killing his seventy brothers.
Judges 9:57 And God also made all the evil of the men of Shechem return on their heads, and upon them came the curse of Jotham the son of Jerubbaal.
Judges 10:1 After Abimelech there arose to the hill country of Ephraim.
Judges 10:2 And he judged Israel twenty-three years. Then he died and was buried at Shamir.
Judges 10:3 After him arose Jair the Gileadite, who judged Israel twenty-two years.
Judges 10:4 And he had thirty sons who which are in the land of Gilead.
Judges 10:5 And Jair died and was buried in Kamon.
Judges 10:6  forsook the LORD and did not serve him.
Judges 10:7 So the anger of the LORD was kindled against Israel, and he sold them into the hand of the Philistines and into the hand of the Ammonites,
Judges 10:8 and they crushed and oppressed the people of Israel that year. For eighteen years they oppressed all the people of Israel who were beyond the Jordan in the land of the Amorites, which is in Gilead.
Judges 10:9 And the Ammonites crossed the Jordan to fight also against Judah and against Benjamin and against the house of Ephraim, so that Israel was severely distressed.
Judges 10:10 And the people of Israel we have forsaken our God and have served the Baals.”
Judges 10:11 And the LORD said to the people of Israel, “Did I not save you from the Philistines?
Judges 10:12 The Sidonians also, and saved you out of their hand.
Judges 10:13 Yet you have forsaken me and served other gods; therefore I will save you no more.
Judges 10:14 Go and cry out to the gods whom you have chosen; let them save you in the time of your distress.”
Judges 10:15 And the people of Israel said to the LORD, “We have sinned; do to us whatever seems good to you. Only please deliver us this day.”
Judges 10:16 So they put away the foreign gods from among them and served the LORD, and he became impatient over the misery of Israel.
Judges 10:17 Then the Ammonites were called to arms, and they encamped in Gilead. And the people of Israel came together, and they encamped at Mizpah.
Judges 10:18 And the people, the leaders of Gilead, said one to another, “Who is the man who will begin to fight against the Ammonites? He shall be head over all the inhabitants of Gilead.”
Judges 11:1 Now a mighty warrior, but he was the son of a prostitute. Gilead was the father of Jephthah.
Judges 11:2 And Gilead's wife also bore him sons. And when his wife's sons grew up, they drove Jephthah out and said to him, “You shall not have an inheritance in our father's house, for you are the son of another woman.”
Judges 11:3 Then Jephthah fled from his brothers and lived in the land of worthless fellows collected around Jephthah and went out with him.
Judges 11:4 After a time the Ammonites made war against Israel.
Judges 11:5 And when the Ammonites made war against Israel, the elders of Gilead went to bring Jephthah from the land of Tob.
Judges 11:6 And they said to Jephthah, “Come and be our leader, that we may fight against the Ammonites.”
Judges 11:7 But Jephthah said to the elders of Gilead, “Did you not hate me and drive me out of my father's house? Why have you come to me now when you are in distress?”
Judges 11:8 And the elders of Gilead said to Jephthah, “That is why we have turned to you now, that you may go with us and fight against the Ammonites and be our head over all the inhabitants of Gilead.”
Judges 11:9 Jephthah said to the elders of Gilead, “If you bring me home again to fight against the Ammonites, and the LORD gives them over to me, I will be your head.”
Judges 11:10 And the elders of Gilead said to Jephthah, “The LORD will be witness between us, if we do not do as you say.”
Judges 11:11 So Jephthah went with the elders of Gilead, and the people Mizpah.
Judges 11:12 Then Jephthah sent messengers to the king of the Ammonites and said, “What do you have against me, that you have come to me to fight against my land?”
Judges 11:13 And the king of the Ammonites answered the messengers of Jephthah, Jabbok and to the Jordan; now therefore restore it peaceably.”
Judges 11:14 Jephthah again sent messengers to the king of the Ammonites
Judges 11:15 and said to him, “Thus says Jephthah: Israel did not take away the land of Moab or the land of the Ammonites,
Judges 11:16 but when they came up from Egypt, Israel went through the wilderness came to Kadesh.
Judges 11:17  remained at Kadesh.
Judges 11:18 “Then they journeyed through the wilderness and camped on the other side of the Arnon. But they did not enter the territory of Moab, for the Arnon was the boundary of Moab.
Judges 11:19  Israel then sent messengers to Sihon king of the Amorites, king of Heshbon, and Israel said to him, ‘Please let us pass through your land to our country,’
Judges 11:20 but Sihon did not trust Israel to pass through his territory, so Sihon gathered all his people together and encamped at Jahaz and fought with Israel.
Judges 11:21 And the LORD, the God of Israel, gave Sihon and all his people into the hand of Israel, and they defeated them. So Israel took possession of all the land of the Amorites, who inhabited that country.
Judges 11:22 And they took possession of all the territory of the Amorites from the Arnon to the Jabbok and from the wilderness to the Jordan.
Judges 11:23 So then the LORD, the God of Israel, dispossessed the Amorites from before his people Israel; and are you to take possession of them?
Judges 11:24 Will you not possess what And all that the LORD our God has dispossessed before us, we will possess.
Judges 11:25 Now are you any better than Balak the son of Zippor, king of Moab? Did he ever contend against Israel, or did he ever go to war with them?
Judges 11:26 While Israel lived in Aroer and its villages, and in all the cities that are on the banks of the Arnon, 300 years, why did you not deliver them within that time?
Judges 11:27 I therefore have not sinned against you, and you do me wrong by making war on me. The LORD, the Judge, decide this day between the people of Israel and the people of Ammon.”
Judges 11:28 But the king of the Ammonites did not listen to the words of Jephthah that he sent to him.
Judges 11:29  Then the Spirit of the LORD was upon Jephthah, and he passed through Gilead and Manasseh and passed on to Mizpah of Gilead, and from Mizpah of Gilead he passed on to the Ammonites.
Judges 11:30 And Jephthah made a vow to the LORD and said, “If you will give the Ammonites into my hand,
Judges 11:31 then whatever  up for a burnt offering.”
Judges 11:32 So Jephthah crossed over to the Ammonites to fight against them, and the LORD gave them into his hand.
Judges 11:33 And he struck them from Aroer to the neighborhood of Minnith, twenty cities, and as far as Abel-keramim, with a great blow. So the Ammonites were subdued before the people of Israel.
Judges 11:34 Then Jephthah came to his home at with tambourines and with dances. She was his only child; besides her he had neither son nor daughter.
Judges 11:35 And as soon as he saw her, he tore his clothes and said, “Alas, my daughter! You have brought me very low, and you have become the cause of great trouble to me. For I have opened my mouth to the LORD, and I cannot take back my vow.”
Judges 11:36 And she said to him, “My father, you have opened your mouth to the LORD; do to me according to what has gone out of your mouth, now that the LORD has avenged you on your enemies, on the Ammonites.”
Judges 11:37 So she said to her father, “Let this thing be done for me: leave me alone two months, that I may go up and down on the mountains and weep for my virginity, I and my companions.”
Judges 11:38 So he said, “Go.” Then he sent her away for two months, and she departed, she and her companions, and wept for her virginity on the mountains.
Judges 11:39 And at the end of two months, she returned to her father, who did with her according to his vow that he had made. She had never known a man, and it became a custom in Israel
Judges 11:40 that the daughters of Israel went year by year to lament the daughter of Jephthah the Gileadite four days in the year.
Judges 12:1  The men of Ephraim were called to arms, and they crossed to Zaphon and said to Jephthah, “Why did you cross over to fight against the Ammonites and did not call us to go with you? We will burn your house over you with fire.”
Judges 12:2 And Jephthah said to them, “I and my people had a great dispute with the Ammonites, and when I called you, you did not save me from their hand.
Judges 12:3 And when I saw that you would not save me, I took my life in my hand and crossed over against the Ammonites, and the LORD gave them into my hand. Why then have you come up to me this day to fight against me?”
Judges 12:4 Then Jephthah gathered all the men of Gilead and fought with Ephraim. And the men of Gilead struck Ephraim, because they said, “You are fugitives of Ephraim, you Gileadites, in the midst of Ephraim and Manasseh.”
Judges 12:5 And the Gileadites captured the fords of the Jordan against the Ephraimites. And when any of the fugitives of Ephraim said, “Let me go over,” the men of Gilead said to him, “Are you an Ephraimite?” When he said, “No,”
Judges 12:6 they said to him, “Then say Shibboleth,” and he said, “Sibboleth,” for he could not pronounce it right. Then they seized him and slaughtered him at the fords of the Jordan. At that time 42,000 of the Ephraimites fell.
Judges 12:7 Jephthah judged Israel six years. Then Jephthah the Gileadite died and was buried in his city in Gilead.
Judges 12:8 After him Ibzan of Bethlehem judged Israel.
Judges 12:9 He had thirty sons, and thirty daughters he gave in marriage outside his clan, and thirty daughters he brought in from outside for his sons. And he judged Israel seven years.
Judges 12:10 Then Ibzan died and was buried at Bethlehem.
Judges 12:11 After him Elon the Zebulunite judged Israel, and he judged Israel ten years.
Judges 12:12 Then Elon the Zebulunite died and was buried at Aijalon in the land of Zebulun.
Judges 12:13 After him Abdon the son of Hillel the Pirathonite judged Israel.
Judges 12:14 He had forty rode on seventy donkeys, and he judged Israel eight years.
Judges 12:15 Then Abdon the son of Hillel the Pirathonite died and was buried at Pirathon in the land of Ephraim, in the hill country of the Amalekites.
Judges 13:1 And the people of Israel again into the hand of the Philistines for forty years.
Judges 13:2 There was a certain man of And his wife was barren and had no children.
Judges 13:3  And the angel of the LORD appeared to the woman and said to her, “Behold, you are barren and have not borne children, but you shall conceive and bear a son.
Judges 13:4 Therefore be careful and drink no wine or strong drink, and eat nothing unclean,
Judges 13:5 for behold, you shall conceive and bear a son. begin to save Israel from the hand of the Philistines.”
Judges 13:6 Then the woman came and told her husband, I did not ask him where he was from, and he did not tell me his name,
Judges 13:7 but he said to me, ‘Behold, you shall conceive and bear a son. So then drink no wine or strong drink, and eat nothing unclean, for the child shall be a Nazirite to God from the womb to the day of his death.’”
Judges 13:8 Then Manoah prayed to the LORD and said, “O Lord, please let the man of God whom you sent come again to us and teach us what we are to do with the child who will be born.”
Judges 13:9 And God listened to the voice of Manoah, and the angel of God came again to the woman as she sat in the field. But Manoah her husband was not with her.
Judges 13:10 So the woman ran quickly and told her husband, “Behold, the man who came to me the other day has appeared to me.”
Judges 13:11 And Manoah arose and went after his wife and came to the man and said to him, “Are you the man who spoke to this woman?” And he said, “I am.”
Judges 13:12 And Manoah said, “Now when your words come true, what is to be the child's manner of life, and what is his mission?”
Judges 13:13 And the angel of the LORD said to Manoah, “Of all that I said to the woman let her be careful.
Judges 13:14 She may not eat of anything that comes from the vine, neither let her drink wine or strong drink, or eat any unclean thing. All that I commanded her let her observe.”
Judges 13:15 Manoah said to the angel of the LORD, “Please let us detain you and prepare a young goat for you.”
Judges 13:16 And the angel of the LORD said to Manoah, “If you detain me, I will not eat of your food. But if you prepare a burnt offering, then offer it to the LORD.” (For Manoah did not know that he was the angel of the LORD.)
Judges 13:17 And Manoah said to the angel of the LORD, “What is your name, so that, when your words come true, we may honor you?”
Judges 13:18 And the angel of the LORD said to him, it is wonderful?”
Judges 13:19 So  wonders, and Manoah and his wife were watching.
Judges 13:20 And when the flame went up toward heaven from the altar, the angel of the LORD went up in the flame of the altar. Now Manoah and his wife were watching, and they fell on their faces to the ground.
Judges 13:21 The angel of the LORD appeared no more to Manoah and to his wife. Then Manoah knew that he was the angel of the LORD.
Judges 13:22 And Manoah said to his wife, “We shall surely die, for we have seen God.”
Judges 13:23 But his wife said to him, “If the LORD had meant to kill us, he would not have accepted a burnt offering and a grain offering at our hands, or shown us all these things, or now announced to us such things as these.”
Judges 13:24 And the woman bore a son and called his name Samson. And the young man grew, and the LORD blessed him.
Judges 13:25  Zorah and Eshtaol.
Judges 14:1  Timnah, and at Timnah he saw one of the daughters of the Philistines.
Judges 14:2 Then he came up and told his father and mother, “I saw one of the daughters of the Philistines at Timnah. Now get her for me as my wife.”
Judges 14:3 But his father and mother said to him, “Is there not a woman among the daughters uncircumcised Philistines?” But Samson said to his father, “Get her for me, for she is right in my eyes.”
Judges 14:4 His father and mother did not know that it was At that time the Philistines ruled over Israel.
Judges 14:5 Then Samson went down with his father and mother to Timnah, and they came to the vineyards of Timnah. And behold, a young lion came toward him roaring.
Judges 14:6  Then the Spirit of the LORD rushed upon him, and although he had nothing in his hand, he tore the lion in pieces as one tears a young goat. But he did not tell his father or his mother what he had done.
Judges 14:7 Then he went down and talked with the woman, and she was right in Samson's eyes.
Judges 14:8 After some days he returned to take her. And he turned aside to see the carcass of the lion, and behold, there was a swarm of bees in the body of the lion, and honey.
Judges 14:9 He scraped it out into his hands and went on, eating as he went. And he came to his father and mother and gave some to them, and they ate. But he did not tell them that he had scraped the honey from the carcass of the lion.
Judges 14:10 His father went down to the woman, and Samson prepared a feast there, for so the young men used to do.
Judges 14:11 As soon as the people saw him, they brought thirty companions to be with him.
Judges 14:12 And Samson said to them, changes of clothes,
Judges 14:13 but if you cannot tell me what it is, then you shall give me thirty linen garments and thirty changes of clothes.” And they said to him, “Put your riddle, that we may hear it.”
Judges 14:14 And he said to them, “Out of the eater came something to eat. Out of the strong came something sweet.”  And in three days they could not solve the riddle.
Judges 14:15 On the fourth lest we burn you and your father's house with fire. Have you invited us here to impoverish us?”
Judges 14:16 And Samson's wife wept over him and said, “You only hate me; you do not love me. You have put a riddle to my people, and you have not told me what it is.” And he said to her, “Behold, I have not told my father nor my mother, and shall I tell you?”
Judges 14:17 She wept before him the seven days that their feast lasted, and on the seventh day he told her, because she pressed him hard. Then she told the riddle to her people.
Judges 14:18 And the men of the city said to him on the seventh day before the sun went down, “What is sweeter than honey? What is stronger than a lion?”  And he said to them, “If you had not plowed with my heifer, you would not have found out my riddle.”
Judges 14:19  Ashkelon and struck down thirty men of the town and took their spoil and gave the garments to those who had told the riddle. In hot anger he went back to his father's house.
Judges 14:20 And Samson's wife was given to who had been his best man.
Judges 15:1 After some days, at the time of wheat harvest, Samson went to visit his wife with a young goat. And he said, “I will go in to my wife in the chamber.” But her father would not allow him to go in.
Judges 15:2 And her father said, “I really thought that you utterly hated her, so I gave her to your companion. Is not her younger sister more beautiful than she? Please take her instead.”
Judges 15:3 And Samson said to them, “This time I shall be innocent in regard to the Philistines, when I do them harm.”
Judges 15:4 So Samson went and caught 300 foxes and took torches. And he turned them tail to tail and put a torch between each pair of tails.
Judges 15:5 And when he had set fire to the torches, he let the foxes go into the standing grain of the Philistines and set fire to the stacked grain and the standing grain, as well as the olive orchards.
Judges 15:6 Then the Philistines said, “Who has done this?” And they said, “Samson, the son-in-law of the Timnite, because he has taken his wife burned her and her father with fire.
Judges 15:7 And Samson said to them, “If this is what you do, I swear I will be avenged on you, and after that I will quit.”
Judges 15:8 And he struck them hip and thigh with a great blow, and he went down and stayed in the cleft of the rock of Etam.
Judges 15:9 Then the Philistines came up and encamped in Judah and Lehi.
Judges 15:10 And the men of Judah said, “Why have you come up against us?” They said, “We have come up to bind Samson, to do to him as he did to us.”
Judges 15:11 Then 3,000 men of Judah went down to the cleft of the rock of Etam, and said to Samson, “Do you not know that the Philistines are rulers over us? What then is this that you have done to us?” And he said to them, “As they did to me, so have I done to them.”
Judges 15:12 And they said to him, “We have come down to bind you, that we may give you into the hands of the Philistines.” And Samson said to them, “Swear to me that you will not attack me yourselves.”
Judges 15:13 They said to him, “No; we will only bind you and give you into their hands. We will surely not kill you.” So they bound him with two new ropes and brought him up from the rock.
Judges 15:14 When he came to Lehi, the Philistines came shouting to meet him. Then the Spirit of the LORD rushed upon him, and the ropes that were on his arms became as flax that has caught fire, and his bonds melted off his hands.
Judges 15:15 And he found a fresh jawbone of a donkey, and put out his hand and took it, and with it he struck 1,000 men.
Judges 15:16 And Samson said, “With the jawbone of a donkey, heaps upon heaps, with the jawbone of a donkey have I struck down a thousand men.”
Judges 15:17 As soon as he had finished speaking, he threw away the jawbone out of his hand. And that place
Judges 15:18 And he was very thirsty, and he called upon the LORD and said, “You have granted this great salvation by the hand of your servant, and shall I now die of thirst and fall into the hands of the uncircumcised?”
Judges 15:19 And God split open the hollow place that is  it is at Lehi to this day.
Judges 15:20 And he judged Israel in the days of the Philistines twenty years.
Judges 16:1 Samson went to Gaza, and there he saw a prostitute, and he went in to her.
Judges 16:2 The Gazites were told, “Samson has come here.” And they surrounded the place and set an ambush for him all night at the gate of the city. They kept quiet all night, saying, “Let us wait till the light of the morning; then we will kill him.”
Judges 16:3 But Samson lay till midnight, and at midnight he arose and took hold of the doors of the gate of the city and the two posts, and pulled them up, bar and all, and put them on his shoulders and carried them to the top of the hill that is in front of Hebron.
Judges 16:4 After this he loved a woman in the Valley of Sorek, whose name was Delilah.
Judges 16:5 And humble him. And we will each give you 1,100 pieces of silver.”
Judges 16:6 So Delilah said to Samson, “Please tell me where your great strength lies, and how you might be bound, that one could subdue you.”
Judges 16:7 Samson said to her, “If they bind me with seven fresh bowstrings that have not been dried, then I shall become weak and be like any other man.”
Judges 16:8 Then the lords of the Philistines brought up to her seven fresh bowstrings that had not been dried, and she bound him with them.
Judges 16:9 Now she had men lying in ambush in an inner chamber. And she said to him, “The Philistines are upon you, Samson!” But he snapped the bowstrings, as a thread of flax snaps when it touches the fire. So the secret of his strength was not known.
Judges 16:10 Then Delilah said to Samson, “Behold, you have mocked me and told me lies. Please tell me how you might be bound.”
Judges 16:11 And he said to her, “If they bind me with new ropes that have not been used, then I shall become weak and be like any other man.”
Judges 16:12 So Delilah took new ropes and bound him with them and said to him, “The Philistines are upon you, Samson!” And the men lying in ambush were in an inner chamber. But he snapped the ropes off his arms like a thread.
Judges 16:13 Then Delilah said to Samson, “Until now you have mocked me and told me lies. Tell me how you might be bound.” And he said to her, “If you weave the seven locks of my head with the web and fasten it tight with the pin, then I shall become weak and be like any other man.”
Judges 16:14 So while he slept, Delilah took the seven locks of his head and wove them into the web.  And she made them tight with the pin and said to him, “The Philistines are upon you, Samson!” But he awoke from his sleep and pulled away the pin, the loom, and the web.
Judges 16:15 And she said to him, “How can you say, ‘I love you,’ when your heart is not with me? You have mocked me these three times, and you have not told me where your great strength lies.”
Judges 16:16 And when she pressed him hard with her words day after day, and urged him, his soul was vexed to death.
Judges 16:17 And he told her all his heart, and said to her, “A razor has never come upon my head, for I have been a Nazirite to God from my mother's womb. If my head is shaved, then my strength will leave me, and I shall become weak and be like any other man.”
Judges 16:18 When Delilah saw that he had told her all his heart, she sent and called the lords of the Philistines, saying, “Come up again, for he has told me all his heart.” Then the lords of the Philistines came up to her and brought the money in their hands.
Judges 16:19 She made him sleep on her knees. And she called a man and had him shave off the seven locks of his head. Then she began to torment him, and his strength left him.
Judges 16:20 And she said, “The Philistines are upon you, Samson!” And he awoke from his sleep and said, “I will go out as at other times and shake myself free.” But he did not know that the LORD had left him.
Judges 16:21 And the Philistines seized him and gouged out his eyes and brought him down to Gaza and bound him with bronze shackles. And he ground at the mill in the prison.
Judges 16:22 But the hair of his head began to grow again after it had been shaved.
Judges 16:23 Now the lords of the Philistines gathered to offer a great sacrifice to Dagon their god and to rejoice, and they said, “Our god has given Samson our enemy into our hand.”
Judges 16:24 And when the people saw him,
Judges 16:25 And when their hearts were merry, they said, “Call Samson, that he may entertain us.” So they called Samson out of the prison, and he entertained them. They made him stand between the pillars.
Judges 16:26 And Samson said to the young man who held him by the hand, “Let me feel the pillars on which the house rests, that I may lean against them.”
Judges 16:27 Now the house was full of men and women. All the lords of the Philistines were there, and on the roof there were about 3,000 men and women, who looked on while Samson entertained.
Judges 16:28 Then Samson called to the LORD and said, “O Lord GOD, please remember me and please strengthen me only this once, O God, that I may be avenged on the Philistines for my two eyes.”
Judges 16:29 And Samson grasped the two middle pillars on which the house rested, and he leaned his weight against them, his right hand on the one and his left hand on the other.
Judges 16:30 And Samson said, “Let me die with the Philistines.” Then he bowed with all his strength, and the house fell upon the lords and upon all the people who were in it. So the dead whom he killed at his death were more than those whom he had killed during his life.
Judges 16:31 Then his brothers and all his family came down and took him and brought him up and buried him between Zorah and Eshtaol in the tomb of Manoah his father. He had judged Israel twenty years.
Judges 17:1 There was a man of the hill country of Ephraim, whose name was Micah.
Judges 17:2 And he said to his mother, “The 1,100 pieces of silver that were taken from you, about which you uttered a curse, and also spoke it in my ears, behold, the silver is with me; I took it.” And his mother said, “Blessed be my son by the LORD.”
Judges 17:3 And he restored the 1,100 pieces of silver to his mother. And his mother said, “I dedicate the silver to the LORD from my hand for my son, to make a metal image. Now therefore I will restore it to you.”
Judges 17:4 So when he restored the money to his mother, his mother took 200 pieces of silver and gave it to the silversmith, who made it into a carved image and a metal image. And it was in the house of Micah.
Judges 17:5 And the man Micah had a shrine, and he made  one of his sons, who became his priest.
Judges 17:6  Everyone did what was right in his own eyes.
Judges 17:7 Now there was a young man of Bethlehem in Judah, of the family of Judah, who was a Levite, and he sojourned there.
Judges 17:8 And the man departed from the town of Bethlehem in Judah to sojourn where he could find a place. And as he journeyed, he came to the hill country of Ephraim to the house of Micah.
Judges 17:9 And Micah said to him, “Where do you come from?” And he said to him, “I am a Levite of Bethlehem in Judah, and I am going to sojourn where I may find a place.”
Judges 17:10 And Micah said to him, “Stay with me, and be to me a father and a priest, and I will give you ten pieces of silver a year and a suit of clothes and your living.” And the Levite went in.
Judges 17:11 And the Levite was content to dwell with the man, and the young man became to him like one of his sons.
Judges 17:12 And Micah became his priest, and was in the house of Micah.
Judges 17:13 Then Micah said, “Now I know that the LORD will prosper me, because I have a Levite as priest.”
Judges 18:1  the tribe of the people of Dan was seeking for itself an inheritance to dwell in, for until then no inheritance among the tribes of Israel had fallen to them.
Judges 18:2 So the people of Dan sent five able men from the whole number of their tribe, to the hill country of Ephraim, to the house of Micah, and lodged there.
Judges 18:3 When they were by the house of Micah, they recognized the voice of the young Levite. And they turned aside and said to him, “Who brought you here? What are you doing in this place? What is your business here?”
Judges 18:4 And he said to them, “This is how Micah dealt with me: he has hired me, and I have become his priest.”
Judges 18:5 And they said to him, “Inquire of God, please, that we may know whether the journey on which we are setting out will succeed.”
Judges 18:6 And the priest said to them, “Go in peace. The journey on which you go is under the eye of the LORD.”
Judges 18:7 Then the five men departed and came to they were far from the Sidonians and had no dealings with anyone.
Judges 18:8 And when they came to their brothers at Zorah and Eshtaol, their brothers said to them, “What do you report?”
Judges 18:9 They said, Do not be slow to go, to enter in and possess the land.
Judges 18:10 As soon as you go, you will come to an a place where there is no lack of anything that is in the earth.”
Judges 18:11 So 600 men of the tribe of Dan, armed with weapons of war, set out from Zorah and Eshtaol,
Judges 18:12 and went up and encamped at Kiriath-jearim in Judah. On this account that place is called Kiriath-jearim.
Judges 18:13 And they passed on from there to the hill country of Ephraim, and came to the house of Micah.
Judges 18:14 Then the five men who had gone to scout out the country of Laish said to their brothers, “Do you know that in these houses there are an ephod, household gods, a carved image, and a metal image? Now therefore consider what you will do.”
Judges 18:15 And they turned aside there and came to the house of the young Levite, at the home of Micah, and asked him about his welfare.
Judges 18:16 Now the 600 men of the Danites, armed with their weapons of war, stood by the entrance of the gate.
Judges 18:17 And the carved image, the ephod, the household gods, and the metal image, while the priest stood by the entrance of the gate with the 600 men armed with weapons of war.
Judges 18:18 And when these went into Micah's house and took the carved image, the ephod, the household gods, and the metal image, the priest said to them, “What are you doing?”
Judges 18:19 And they said to him, “Keep quiet; a father and a priest. Is it better for you to be priest to the house of one man, or to be priest to a tribe and clan in Israel?”
Judges 18:20 And the priest's heart was glad. He took the ephod and the household gods and the carved image and went along with the people.
Judges 18:21 So they turned and departed, putting the little ones and the livestock and the goods in front of them.
Judges 18:22 When they had gone a distance from the home of Micah, the men who were in the houses near Micah's house were called out, and they overtook the people of Dan.
Judges 18:23 And they shouted to the people of Dan, who turned around and said to Micah, “What is the matter with you, that you come with such a company?”
Judges 18:24 And he said, “You take my gods that I made and the priest, and go away, and what have I left? How then do you ask me, ‘What is the matter with you?’”
Judges 18:25 And the people of Dan said to him, “Do not let your voice be heard among us, lest angry fellows fall upon you, and you lose your life with the lives of your household.”
Judges 18:26 Then the people of Dan went their way. And when Micah saw that they were too strong for him, he turned and went back to his home.
Judges 18:27 But the people of Dan took what Micah had made, and the priest who belonged to him, and they came to Laish, to a people struck them with the edge of the sword and burned the city with fire.
Judges 18:28 And there was no deliverer because it was Beth-rehob. Then they rebuilt the city and lived in it.
Judges 18:29 And they named the city the name of the city was Laish at the first.
Judges 18:30 And the people of Dan set up the carved image for themselves, and Jonathan the son of Gershom, of the captivity of the land.
Judges 18:31 So they set up Micah's carved image that he made, as long as the house of God was at Shiloh.
Judges 19:1 In those days, Bethlehem in Judah.
Judges 19:2 And his concubine was unfaithful to  him, and she went away from him to her father's house at Bethlehem in Judah, and was there some four months.
Judges 19:3 Then her husband arose and went after her, to speak kindly to her and bring her back. He had with him his servant and a couple of donkeys. And she brought him into her father's house. And when the girl's father saw him, he came with joy to meet him.
Judges 19:4 And his father-in-law, the girl's father, made him stay, and he remained with him three days. So they ate and drank and spent the night there.
Judges 19:5 And on the fourth day they arose early in the morning, and he prepared to go, but the girl's father said to his son-in-law, “Strengthen your heart with a morsel of bread, and after that you may go.”
Judges 19:6 So the two of them sat and ate and drank together. And the girl's father said to the man, “Be pleased to spend the night, and let your heart be merry.”
Judges 19:7 And when the man rose up to go, his father-in-law pressed him, till he spent the night there again.
Judges 19:8 And on the fifth day he arose early in the morning to depart. And the girl's father said, “Strengthen your heart and wait until the day declines.” So they ate, both of them.
Judges 19:9 And when the man and his concubine and his servant rose up to depart, his father-in-law, the girl's father, said to him, “Behold, now the day has waned toward evening. Please, spend the night. Behold, the day draws to its close. Lodge here and let your heart be merry, and tomorrow you shall arise early in the morning for your journey, and go home.”
Judges 19:10 But the man would not spend the night. He rose up and departed and arrived opposite Jebus (that is, Jerusalem). He had with him a couple of saddled donkeys, and his concubine was with him.
Judges 19:11 When they were near Jebus, the day was nearly over, and the servant said to his master, “Come now, let us turn aside to this city of the Jebusites and spend the night in it.”
Judges 19:12 And his master said to him, “We will not turn aside into the city of foreigners, who do not belong to the people of Israel, but we will pass on to Gibeah.”
Judges 19:13 And he said to his young man, “Come and let us draw near to one of these places and spend the night at Gibeah or at Ramah.”
Judges 19:14 So they passed on and went their way. And the sun went down on them near Gibeah, which belongs to Benjamin,
Judges 19:15 and they turned aside there, to go in and spend the night at Gibeah. And he went in and sat down in the open square of the city, for no one took them into his house to spend the night.
Judges 19:16 And behold, an old man was coming from his work in the field at evening. The man was from The men of the place were Benjaminites.
Judges 19:17 And he lifted up his eyes and saw the traveler in the open square of the city. And the old man said, “Where are you going? And where do you come from?”
Judges 19:18 And he said to him, “We are passing from Bethlehem in Judah to the remote parts of the hill country of Ephraim, from which I come. I went to Bethlehem in Judah, and I am going but no one has taken me into his house.
Judges 19:19 We have straw and feed for our donkeys, with bread and wine for me and your female servant and the young man with your servants. There is no lack of anything.”
Judges 19:20 And the old man said, Only, do not spend the night in the square.”
Judges 19:21 So he brought him into his house and gave the donkeys feed. And they washed their feet, and ate and drank.
Judges 19:22 As they were surrounded the house, beating on the door. And they said to the old man, the master of the house, “Bring out the man who came into your house, that we may know him.”
Judges 19:23 And the man, the master of the house, went out to them and said to them, “No, my brothers, do not do this vile thing.
Judges 19:24  do not do this outrageous thing.”
Judges 19:25 But the men would not listen to him. So the man seized his concubine and made her go out to them. And they knew her and abused her all night until the morning. And as the dawn began to break, they let her go.
Judges 19:26 And as morning appeared, the woman came and fell down at the door of the man's house where her master was, until it was light.
Judges 19:27 And her master rose up in the morning, and when he opened the doors of the house and went out to go on his way, behold, there was his concubine lying at the door of the house, with her hands on the threshold.
Judges 19:28 He said to her, “Get up, let us be going.” But there was no answer. Then he put her on the donkey, and the man rose up and went away to his home.
Judges 19:29 And when he entered his house, he took a knife, and taking hold of his concubine he divided her, limb by limb, into twelve pieces, and sent her throughout all the territory of Israel.
Judges 19:30  consider it, take counsel, and speak.”
Judges 20:1 Then Mizpah.
Judges 20:2 And the that drew the sword.
Judges 20:3 (Now the people of Benjamin heard that the people of Israel had gone up to Mizpah.) And the people of Israel said, “Tell us, how did this evil happen?”
Judges 20:4 And the Levite, the husband of the woman who was murdered, answered and said, “I came to Gibeah that belongs to Benjamin, I and my concubine, to spend the night.
Judges 20:5  And the leaders of Gibeah rose against me and surrounded the house against me by night. They meant to kill me, and they violated my concubine, and she is dead.
Judges 20:6  outrage in Israel.
Judges 20:7 Behold, you people of Israel, all of you, give your advice and counsel here.”
Judges 20:8 And all the people arose as one man, saying, “None of us will go to his tent, and none of us will return to his house.
Judges 20:9 But now this is what we will do to Gibeah: we will go up against it by lot,
Judges 20:10 and we will take ten men of a hundred throughout all the tribes of Israel, and a hundred of a thousand, and a thousand of ten thousand, to bring provisions for the people, that when they come they may repay Gibeah of Benjamin for all the outrage that they have committed in Israel.”
Judges 20:11 So all the men of Israel gathered against the city, united as one man.
Judges 20:12  And the tribes of Israel sent men through all the tribe of Benjamin, saying, “What evil is this that has taken place among you?
Judges 20:13 Now therefore give up the men, and purge evil from Israel.” But the Benjaminites would not listen to the voice of their brothers, the people of Israel.
Judges 20:14 Then the people of Benjamin came together out of the cities to Gibeah to go out to battle against the people of Israel.
Judges 20:15 And the people of Benjamin mustered out of their cities on that day who drew the sword, besides the inhabitants of Gibeah, who mustered 700 chosen men.
Judges 20:16 Among all these were 700 chosen men who were left-handed; every one could sling a stone at a hair and not miss.
Judges 20:17 And the men of Israel, apart from Benjamin, mustered 400,000 men who drew the sword; all these were men of war.
Judges 20:18 The people of Israel arose and went up to “Judah shall go up first.”
Judges 20:19 Then the people of Israel rose in the morning and encamped against Gibeah.
Judges 20:20 And the men of Israel went out to fight against Benjamin, and the men of Israel drew up the battle line against them at Gibeah.
Judges 20:21  The people of Benjamin came out of Gibeah and destroyed on that day 22,000 men of the Israelites.
Judges 20:22 But the people, the men of Israel, took courage, and again formed the battle line in the same place where they had formed it on the first day.
Judges 20:23  And the people of Israel went up and wept before the LORD until the evening. And they inquired of the LORD, “Shall we again draw near to fight against our brothers, the people of Benjamin?” And the LORD said, “Go up against them.”
Judges 20:24 So the people of Israel came near against the people of Benjamin the second day.
Judges 20:25 And Benjamin drew the sword.
Judges 20:26 Then all the people of Israel, the whole army, went up and came to Bethel and wept. They sat there before the LORD and fasted that day until evening, and offered burnt offerings and peace offerings before the LORD.
Judges 20:27 And the people of Israel inquired of the LORD (for the ark of the covenant of God was there in those days,
Judges 20:28 and ministered before it in those days), saying, “Shall we go out once more to battle against our brothers, the people of Benjamin, or shall we cease?” And the LORD said, “Go up, for tomorrow I will give them into your hand.”
Judges 20:29  So Israel set men in ambush around Gibeah.
Judges 20:30 And the people of Israel went up against the people of Benjamin on the third day and set themselves in array against Gibeah, as at other times.
Judges 20:31 And the people of Benjamin went out against the people and were drawn away from the city. And as at other times they began to strike and kill some of the people in the highways, Bethel and the other to Gibeah, and in the open country, about thirty men of Israel.
Judges 20:32 And the people of Benjamin said, “They are routed before us, as at the first.” But the people of Israel said, “Let us flee and draw them away from the city to the highways.”
Judges 20:33 And all the men of Israel rose up out of their place and set themselves in array at Baal-tamar, and the men of Israel who were in ambush rushed out of their place from Maareh-geba.
Judges 20:34 And there came against Gibeah 10,000 chosen men out of all Israel, and the battle was hard, but the Benjaminites did not know that disaster was close upon them.
Judges 20:35 And the LORD defeated Benjamin before Israel, and the people of Israel destroyed 25,100 men of Benjamin that day. All these were men who drew the sword.
Judges 20:36 So the people of Benjamin saw that they were defeated. The men of Israel gave ground to Benjamin, because they trusted the men in ambush whom they had set against Gibeah.
Judges 20:37  Then the men in ambush hurried and rushed against Gibeah; the men in ambush moved out and struck all the city with the edge of the sword.
Judges 20:38 Now the appointed signal between the men of Israel and the men in the main ambush was that when they made a great cloud of smoke rise up out of the city
Judges 20:39 the men of Israel should turn in battle. Now Benjamin had begun to strike and kill about thirty men of Israel. They said, “Surely they are defeated before us, as in the first battle.”
Judges 20:40 But when the signal began to rise out of the city in a column of smoke, the Benjaminites looked behind them, and behold, the whole of the city went up in smoke to heaven.
Judges 20:41 Then the men of Israel turned, and the men of Benjamin were dismayed, for they saw that disaster was close upon them.
Judges 20:42 Therefore they turned their backs before the men of Israel in the direction of the wilderness, but the battle overtook them. And those who came out of the cities were destroying them in their midst.
Judges 20:43 Surrounding the Benjaminites, they pursued them and trod them down from Nohah  as far as opposite Gibeah on the east.
Judges 20:44 Eighteen thousand men of Benjamin fell, all of them men of valor.
Judges 20:45 And they turned Rimmon. Five thousand men of them were cut down in the highways. And they were pursued hard to Gidom, and 2,000 men of them were struck down.
Judges 20:46 So all who fell that day of Benjamin were 25,000 men who drew the sword, all of them men of valor.
Judges 20:47 But 600 men turned and Rimmon and remained at the rock of Rimmon four months.
Judges 20:48 And the men of Israel turned back against the people of Benjamin and struck them with the edge of the sword, the city, men and beasts and all that they found. And all the towns that they found they set on fire.
Judges 21:1 Now the men of Israel had sworn at Mizpah, “No one of us shall give his daughter in marriage to Benjamin.”
Judges 21:2 And the people came to Bethel and sat there till evening before God, and they lifted up their voices and wept bitterly.
Judges 21:3 And they said, “O LORD, the God of Israel, why has this happened in Israel, that today there should be one tribe lacking in Israel?”
Judges 21:4 And the next day the people rose early and built there an altar and offered burnt offerings and peace offerings.
Judges 21:5 And the people of Israel said, “Which of all the tribes of Israel did not come up in the assembly to the LORD?” For they had taken a great oath concerning him who did not come up to the LORD to Mizpah, saying, “He shall surely be put to death.”
Judges 21:6 And the people of Israel had compassion for Benjamin their brother and said, “One tribe is cut off from Israel this day.
Judges 21:7  What shall we do for wives for those who are left, since we have sworn by the LORD that we will not give them any of our daughters for wives?”
Judges 21:8 And they said, “What one is there of the tribes of Israel that did not come up to the LORD to Mizpah?” And behold, no one had come to the camp from Jabesh-gilead, to the assembly.
Judges 21:9 For when the people were mustered, behold, not one of the inhabitants of Jabesh-gilead was there.
Judges 21:10 So the congregation sent 12,000 of their bravest men there and commanded them, “Go and strike the inhabitants of Jabesh-gilead with the edge of the sword; also the women and the little ones.
Judges 21:11 This is what you shall do: every male and every woman that has lain with a male you shall devote to destruction.”
Judges 21:12 And they found among the inhabitants of Jabesh-gilead 400 young virgins who had not known a man by lying with him, and they brought them to the camp at Shiloh, which is in the land of Canaan.
Judges 21:13 Then the whole congregation sent word to the people of Benjamin who were at the proclaimed peace to them.
Judges 21:14 And Benjamin returned at that time. And they gave them the women whom they had saved alive of the women of Jabesh-gilead, but they were not enough for them.
Judges 21:15 And the people had compassion on Benjamin because the LORD had made a breach in the tribes of Israel.
Judges 21:16 Then the elders of the congregation said, “What shall we do for wives for those who are left, since the women are destroyed out of Benjamin?”
Judges 21:17 And they said, “There must be an inheritance for the survivors of Benjamin, that a tribe not be blotted out from Israel.
Judges 21:18 Yet we cannot give them wives from our daughters.” For the people of Israel had sworn, “Cursed be he who gives a wife to Benjamin.”
Judges 21:19 So they said, “Behold, there is the yearly feast of the LORD at Shiloh, which is north of Bethel, on the east of the highway that goes up from Bethel to Shechem, and south of Lebonah.”
Judges 21:20 And they commanded the people of Benjamin, saying, “Go and lie in ambush in the vineyards
Judges 21:21 and watch. If the daughters of Shiloh come out to dance in the dances, then come out of the vineyards and snatch each man his wife from the daughters of Shiloh, and go to the land of Benjamin.
Judges 21:22 And when their fathers or their brothers come to complain to us, we will say to them, ‘Grant them graciously to us, because we did not take for each man of them his wife in battle, neither did you give them to them, else you would now be guilty.’”
Judges 21:23 And the people of Benjamin did so and took their wives, according to their number, from the dancers whom they carried off. Then they went and returned to their inheritance and rebuilt the towns and lived in them.
Judges 21:24 And the people of Israel departed from there at that time, every man to his tribe and family, and they went out from there every man to his inheritance.
Judges 21:25  In those days there was no king in Israel. Everyone did what was right in his own eyes.
Ruth 1:1 In the days Bethlehem in Judah went to sojourn in the country of Moab, he and his wife and his two sons.
Ruth 1:2 The name of the man was Elimelech and the name of his wife Naomi, and the names of his two sons were Mahlon and Chilion. They were Ephrathites from Bethlehem in Judah. They went into the country of Moab and remained there.
Ruth 1:3 But Elimelech, the husband of Naomi, died, and she was left with her two sons.
Ruth 1:4 These took Moabite wives; the name of the one was Orpah and the name of the other Ruth. They lived there about ten years,
Ruth 1:5 and both Mahlon and Chilion died, so that the woman was left without her two sons and her husband.
Ruth 1:6 Then she arose with her daughters-in-law to return from the country of Moab, for she had heard in the fields of Moab that given them food.
Ruth 1:7 So she set out from the place where she was with her two daughters-in-law, and they went on the way to return to the land of Judah.
Ruth 1:8 But Naomi said to her two daughters-in-law, “Go, return each of you to her mother's house. May the LORD the dead and with me.
Ruth 1:9 The LORD grant that you may find rest, each of you in the house of her husband!” Then she kissed them, and they lifted up their voices and wept.
Ruth 1:10 And they said to her, “No, we will return with you to your people.”
Ruth 1:11 But Naomi said, “Turn back, my daughters; why will you go with me? Have I yet sons in my womb that they may become your husbands?
Ruth 1:12 Turn back, my daughters; go your way, for I am too old to have a husband. If I should say I have hope, even if I should have a husband this night and should bear sons,
Ruth 1:13 would you therefore wait till they were grown? Would you therefore refrain from marrying? No, my daughters, for it is exceedingly bitter to me for your sake that the hand of the LORD has gone out against me.”
Ruth 1:14 Then they lifted up their voices and wept again. And Orpah kissed her mother-in-law, but Ruth clung to her.
Ruth 1:15 And she said, “See, your sister-in-law has gone back to her people and to her gods; return after your sister-in-law.”
Ruth 1:16 But Ruth said, “Do not urge me to leave you or to return from following you. For where you go I will go, and where you lodge I will lodge. Your people shall be my people, and your God my God.
Ruth 1:17 Where you die I will die, and there will I be buried. May the LORD do so to me and more also if anything but death parts me from you.”
Ruth 1:18  And when Naomi saw that she was determined to go with her, she said no more.
Ruth 1:19 So the two of them went on until they came to Bethlehem. And when they came to Bethlehem, the whole town was stirred because of them. And the women said, “Is this Naomi?”
Ruth 1:20 She said to them, “Do not call me Naomi;  for the Almighty has dealt very bitterly with me.
Ruth 1:21  I went away full, and the LORD has brought me back empty. Why call me Naomi, when the LORD has testified against me and the Almighty has brought calamity upon me?”
Ruth 1:22 So Naomi returned, and Ruth the Moabite her daughter-in-law with her, who returned from the country of Moab. And they came to Bethlehem at the beginning of barley harvest.
Ruth 2:1 Now Naomi had Boaz.
Ruth 2:2 And Ruth the Moabite said to Naomi, “Let me go to the field and in whose sight I shall find favor.” And she said to her, “Go, my daughter.”
Ruth 2:3 So she set out and went and gleaned in the field after the reapers, and she happened to come to the part of the field belonging to Boaz, who was of the clan of Elimelech.
Ruth 2:4 And behold, Boaz came from Bethlehem. And he said to the reapers, “The LORD be with you!” And they answered, “The LORD bless you.”
Ruth 2:5 Then Boaz said to his young man who was in charge of the reapers, “Whose young woman is this?”
Ruth 2:6 And the servant who was in charge of the reapers answered, “She is the young Moabite woman, who came back with Naomi from the country of Moab.
Ruth 2:7 She said, ‘Please let me glean and gather among the sheaves after the reapers.’ So she came, and she has continued from early morning until now, except for a short rest.”
Ruth 2:8 Then Boaz said to Ruth, “Now, listen, my daughter, do not go to glean in another field or leave this one, but keep close to my young women.
Ruth 2:9 Let your eyes be on the field that they are reaping, and go after them. Have I not charged the young men not to touch you? And when you are thirsty, go to the vessels and drink what the young men have drawn.”
Ruth 2:10 Then take notice of me, since I am a foreigner?”
Ruth 2:11 But Boaz answered her, “All that you have done for your mother-in-law since the death of your husband has been fully told to me, and how you left your father and mother and your native land and came to a people that you did not know before.
Ruth 2:12  The LORD repay you for what you have done, and a full reward be given you by the LORD, the God of Israel, under whose wings you have come to take refuge!”
Ruth 2:13 Then she said, “I have found favor in your eyes, my lord, for you have comforted me and spoken kindly to your servant, though I am not one of your servants.”
Ruth 2:14 And at mealtime Boaz said to her, “Come here and eat some bread and dip your morsel in the wine.” So she sat beside the reapers, and he passed to her roasted grain. And she ate until she was satisfied, and she had some left over.
Ruth 2:15 When she rose to glean, Boaz instructed his young men, saying, “Let her glean even among the sheaves, and do not reproach her.
Ruth 2:16 And also pull out some from the bundles for her and leave it for her to glean, and do not rebuke her.”
Ruth 2:17 So she gleaned in the field until evening. Then she beat out what she had gleaned, and it was about an ephah  of barley.
Ruth 2:18 And she took it up and went into the city. Her mother-in-law saw what she had gleaned. She also brought out and gave her what food she had left over after being satisfied.
Ruth 2:19 And her mother-in-law said to her, “Where did you glean today? And where have you worked? Blessed be the man who took notice of you.” So she told her mother-in-law with whom she had worked and said, “The man's name with whom I worked today is Boaz.”
Ruth 2:20 And Naomi said to her daughter-in-law, our redeemers.”
Ruth 2:21 And Ruth the Moabite said, “Besides, he said to me, ‘You shall keep close by my young men until they have finished all my harvest.’”
Ruth 2:22 And Naomi said to Ruth, her daughter-in-law, “It is good, my daughter, that you go out with his young women, lest in another field you be assaulted.”
Ruth 2:23 So she kept close to the young women of Boaz, gleaning until the end of the barley and wheat harvests. And she lived with her mother-in-law.
Ruth 3:1 Then Naomi her mother-in-law said to her, “My daughter, should I not seek rest for you, that it may be well with you?
Ruth 3:2 Is not Boaz with whose young women you were? See, he is winnowing barley tonight at the threshing floor.
Ruth 3:3  Wash therefore and anoint yourself, and put on your cloak and go down to the threshing floor, but do not make yourself known to the man until he has finished eating and drinking.
Ruth 3:4 But when he lies down, observe the place where he lies. Then go and uncover his feet and lie down, and he will tell you what to do.”
Ruth 3:5 And she replied, “All that you say I will do.”
Ruth 3:6 So she went down to the threshing floor and did just as her mother-in-law had commanded her.
Ruth 3:7 And when Boaz had eaten and drunk, and his heart was merry, he went to lie down at the end of the heap of grain. Then she came softly and uncovered his feet and lay down.
Ruth 3:8 At midnight the man was startled and turned over, and behold, a woman lay at his feet!
Ruth 3:9 He said, “Who are you?” And she answered, “I am Ruth, your servant. a redeemer.”
Ruth 3:10 And he said, the first in that you have not gone after young men, whether poor or rich.
Ruth 3:11 And now, my daughter, do not fear. I will do for you all that you ask, for all my fellow townsmen know that you are a worthy woman.
Ruth 3:12 And now it is true that I am a redeemer. Yet there is a redeemer nearer than I.
Ruth 3:13 Remain tonight, and in the morning, if he will as the LORD lives, I will redeem you. Lie down until the morning.”
Ruth 3:14 So she lay at his feet until the morning, but arose before one could recognize another. And he said, “Let it not be known that the woman came to the threshing floor.”
Ruth 3:15 And he said, “Bring the garment you are wearing and hold it out.” So she held it, and he measured out six measures of barley and put it on her. Then she went into the city.
Ruth 3:16 And when she came to her mother-in-law, she said, “How did you fare, my daughter?” Then she told her all that the man had done for her,
Ruth 3:17 saying, “These six measures of barley he gave to me, for he said to me, ‘You must not go back empty-handed to your mother-in-law.’”
Ruth 3:18 She replied, “Wait, my daughter, until you learn how the matter turns out, for the man will not rest but will settle the matter today.”
Ruth 4:1 Now Boaz had gone up to the redeemer, of whom Boaz had spoken, came by. So Boaz said, “Turn aside, friend; sit down here.” And he turned aside and sat down.
Ruth 4:2 And he took ten men of the elders of the city and said, “Sit down here.” So they sat down.
Ruth 4:3 Then he said to the redeemer, “Naomi, who has come back from the country of Moab, is selling the parcel of land that belonged to our relative Elimelech.
Ruth 4:4 So I thought I would tell you of it and say,  will not, tell me, that I may know, for there is no one besides you to redeem it, and I come after you.” And he said, “I will redeem it.”
Ruth 4:5 Then Boaz said, “The day you buy the field from the hand of Naomi, you also acquire Ruth to perpetuate the name of the dead in his inheritance.”
Ruth 4:6  Then the redeemer said, “I cannot redeem it for myself, lest I impair my own inheritance. Take my right of redemption yourself, for I cannot redeem it.”
Ruth 4:7  Now this was the custom in former times in Israel concerning redeeming and exchanging: to confirm a transaction, the one drew off his sandal and gave it to the other, and this was the manner of attesting in Israel.
Ruth 4:8 So when the redeemer said to Boaz, “Buy it for yourself,” he drew off his sandal.
Ruth 4:9 Then Boaz said to the elders and all the people, “You are witnesses this day that I have bought from the hand of Naomi all that belonged to Elimelech and all that belonged to Chilion and to Mahlon.
Ruth 4:10 Also Ruth the Moabite, the widow of Mahlon, I have bought to be my wife, to perpetuate the name of the dead in his inheritance, that the name of the dead may not be cut off from among his brothers and from the gate of his native place. You are witnesses this day.”
Ruth 4:11 Then all the people who were be renowned in Bethlehem,
Ruth 4:12 and may your house be like the house of Perez, of the offspring that the LORD will give you by this young woman.”
Ruth 4:13 So Boaz took Ruth, and she became his wife. And he went in to her, and the LORD gave her conception, and she bore a son.
Ruth 4:14  be renowned in Israel!
Ruth 4:15 He shall be to you a restorer of life and a nourisher of your old age, for your daughter-in-law who loves you, who is more to you than seven sons, has given birth to him.”
Ruth 4:16 Then Naomi took the child and laid him on her lap and became his nurse.
Ruth 4:17  And the women of the neighborhood gave him a name, saying, “A son has been born to Naomi.” They named him Obed. He was the father of Jesse, the father of David.
Ruth 4:18 Now these are the generations of Perez: Perez fathered Hezron,
Ruth 4:19 Hezron fathered Ram, Ram fathered Amminadab,
Ruth 4:20  Amminadab fathered Nahshon, Nahshon fathered Salmon,
Ruth 4:21 Salmon fathered Boaz, Boaz fathered Obed,
Ruth 4:22 Obed fathered Jesse, and Jesse fathered David.
1 Samuel 1:1 There was a certain man of an Ephrathite.
1 Samuel 1:2 He had two wives. The name of the one was Hannah, and the name of the other, Peninnah. And Peninnah had children, but Hannah had no children.
1 Samuel 1:3 Now this man used to go up at Shiloh, where the two sons of Eli, Hophni and Phinehas, were priests of the LORD.
1 Samuel 1:4 On the day when Elkanah sacrificed, he would give portions to Peninnah his wife and to all her sons and daughters.
1 Samuel 1:5 But to Hannah he gave a double portion, because he loved her, though the LORD had closed her womb.
1 Samuel 1:6 And her rival used to provoke her grievously to irritate her, because the LORD had closed her womb.
1 Samuel 1:7 So it went on year by year. As often as she went up to the house of the LORD, she used to provoke her. Therefore Hannah wept and would not eat.
1 Samuel 1:8 And Elkanah, her husband, said to her, “Hannah, why do you weep? And why do you not eat? And why is your heart sad? Am I not more to you than ten sons?”
1 Samuel 1:9 After they had eaten and drunk in Shiloh, Hannah rose. Now Eli the priest was sitting on the seat beside the doorpost of the temple of the LORD.
1 Samuel 1:10 She was deeply distressed and prayed to the LORD and wept bitterly.
1 Samuel 1:11 And she and no razor shall touch his head.”
1 Samuel 1:12 As she continued praying before the LORD, Eli observed her mouth.
1 Samuel 1:13 Hannah was speaking in her heart; only her lips moved, and her voice was not heard. Therefore Eli took her to be a drunken woman.
1 Samuel 1:14 And Eli said to her, “How long will you go on being drunk? Put your wine away from you.”
1 Samuel 1:15 But Hannah answered, “No, my lord, I am a woman troubled in spirit. I have drunk neither wine nor strong drink, but I have been pouring out my soul before the LORD.
1 Samuel 1:16 Do not regard your servant as a worthless woman, for all along I have been speaking out of my great anxiety and vexation.”
1 Samuel 1:17 Then Eli answered, grant your petition that you have made to him.”
1 Samuel 1:18 And she said, went her way and ate, and her face was no longer sad.
1 Samuel 1:19 They rose early in the morning and worshiped before the LORD; then they went back to their house at remembered her.
1 Samuel 1:20 And in due time Hannah conceived and bore a son, and she called his name Samuel, for she said, “I have asked for him from the LORD.”
1 Samuel 1:21 The man Elkanah and all his house went up to offer to the LORD the yearly sacrifice and to pay his vow.
1 Samuel 1:22 But Hannah did not go up, for she said to her husband, “As soon as the child is weaned, I will bring him, so that he may appear in the presence of the LORD and dwell there forever.”
1 Samuel 1:23  only, may the LORD establish his word.” So the woman remained and nursed her son until she weaned him.
1 Samuel 1:24 And when she had weaned him, the house of the LORD at Shiloh. And the child was young.
1 Samuel 1:25 Then they slaughtered the bull, and they brought the child to Eli.
1 Samuel 1:26 And she said, “Oh, my lord! As you live, my lord, I am the woman who was standing here in your presence, praying to the LORD.
1 Samuel 1:27 For this child I prayed, and the LORD has granted me my petition that I made to him.
1 Samuel 1:28 Therefore I have lent him to the LORD. As long as he lives, he is lent to the LORD.” And he worshiped the LORD there.
1 Samuel 2:1 And Hannah prayed and said,  I rejoice in your salvation.
1 Samuel 2:2  no rock like our God.
1 Samuel 2:3 Talk no more so very proudly, let not arrogance come from your mouth; for the LORD is a God of knowledge, and by him actions are weighed.
1 Samuel 2:4  The bows of the mighty are broken, but the feeble bind on strength.
1 Samuel 2:5 Those who were full have hired themselves out for bread, but those who were hungry have ceased to hunger. but she who has many children is forlorn.
1 Samuel 2:6  The LORD kills and brings to life; he brings down to Sheol and raises up.
1 Samuel 2:7 he brings low and he exalts.
1 Samuel 2:8 For the pillars of the earth are the LORD's, and on them he has set the world.
1 Samuel 2:9  “He will guard the feet of his faithful ones, but the wicked shall be cut off in darkness, for not by might shall a man prevail.
1 Samuel 2:10 and exalt the horn of his anointed.”
1 Samuel 2:11 Then Elkanah went home  was ministering to the LORD in the presence of Eli the priest.
1 Samuel 2:12 Now the sons of Eli were They did not know the LORD.
1 Samuel 2:13 The custom of the priests with the people was that when any man offered sacrifice, the priest's servant would come, while the meat was boiling, with a three-pronged fork in his hand,
1 Samuel 2:14 and he would thrust it into the pan or kettle or cauldron or pot. All that the fork brought up the priest would take for himself. This is what they did at Shiloh to all the Israelites who came there.
1 Samuel 2:15 Moreover, before the fat was burned, the priest's servant would come and say to the man who was sacrificing, “Give meat for the priest to roast, for he will not accept boiled meat from you but only raw.”
1 Samuel 2:16 And if the man said to him, “Let them burn the fat first, and then take as much as you wish,” he would say, “No, you must give it now, and if not, I will take it by force.”
1 Samuel 2:17 Thus the sin of the young men was very great for the men treated the offering of the LORD with contempt.
1 Samuel 2:18  clothed with a linen ephod.
1 Samuel 2:19 And his mother used to make for him a little robe and take it to him each year when she went up with her husband to offer the yearly sacrifice.
1 Samuel 2:20 Then Eli would bless Elkanah and his wife, and say, “May the LORD give you children by this woman for the petition she asked of the LORD.” So then they would return to their home.
1 Samuel 2:21  And the boy Samuel grew in the presence of the LORD.
1 Samuel 2:22 Now Eli was very old, and he kept hearing all that his sons were doing to all Israel, and how they lay with the women who were serving at the entrance to the tent of meeting.
1 Samuel 2:23 And he said to them, “Why do you do such things? For I hear of your evil dealings from all these people.
1 Samuel 2:24 No, my sons; it is no good report that I hear the people of the LORD spreading abroad.
1 Samuel 2:25 If someone sins against a man, God will mediate for him, but if someone sins against the LORD, who can intercede for him?” But they would not listen to the voice of their father, for it was the will of the LORD to put them to death.
1 Samuel 2:26 Now the boy Samuel continued to grow both in stature and in favor with the LORD and also with man.
1 Samuel 2:27 And there came ‘Did I indeed reveal myself to the house of your father when they were in Egypt subject to the house of Pharaoh?
1 Samuel 2:28  I gave to the house of your father all my offerings by fire from the people of Israel.
1 Samuel 2:29 Why then do you  my sacrifices and my offerings that I commanded for my dwelling, and honor your sons above me by fattening yourselves on the choicest parts of every offering of my people Israel?’
1 Samuel 2:30 Therefore the LORD, the God of Israel, declares: but now the LORD declares: ‘Far be it from me, for those who honor me I will honor, and those who despise me shall be lightly esteemed.
1 Samuel 2:31 Behold, the days are coming when I will cut off your strength and the strength of your father's house, so that there will not be an old man in your house.
1 Samuel 2:32 Then and there shall not be an old man in your house forever.
1 Samuel 2:33 The only one of you whom I shall not cut off from my altar shall be spared to weep his
1 Samuel 2:34  on the same day.
1 Samuel 2:35  my anointed forever.
1 Samuel 2:36 And everyone who is left in your house shall come to implore him for a piece of silver or a loaf of bread and shall say, “Please put me in one of the priests' places, that I may eat a morsel of bread.”’”
1 Samuel 3:1  And the word of the LORD was rare in those days; there was no frequent vision.
1 Samuel 3:2 At that time Eli, whose eyesight had begun to grow dim so that he could not see, was lying down in his own place.
1 Samuel 3:3  in the temple of the LORD, where the ark of God was.
1 Samuel 3:4 Then the LORD called Samuel, and he said, “Here I am!”
1 Samuel 3:5 and ran to Eli and said, “Here I am, for you called me.” But he said, “I did not call; lie down again.” So he went and lay down.
1 Samuel 3:6 And the LORD called again, “Samuel!” and Samuel arose and went to Eli and said, “Here I am, for you called me.” But he said, “I did not call, my son; lie down again.”
1 Samuel 3:7 Now Samuel did not yet know the LORD, and the word of the LORD had not yet been revealed to him.
1 Samuel 3:8 And the LORD called Samuel again the third time. And he arose and went to Eli and said, “Here I am, for you called me.” Then Eli perceived that the LORD was calling the boy.
1 Samuel 3:9 Therefore Eli said to Samuel, “Go, lie down, and if he calls you, you shall say, ‘Speak, LORD, for your servant hears.’” So Samuel went and lay down in his place.
1 Samuel 3:10 And the LORD came and stood, calling as at other times, “Samuel! Samuel!” And Samuel said, “Speak, for your servant hears.”
1 Samuel 3:11 Then the LORD said to Samuel, “Behold, I am about to do a thing in Israel at which the two ears of everyone who hears it will tingle.
1 Samuel 3:12 On that day I will fulfill against Eli all that I have spoken concerning his house, from beginning to end.
1 Samuel 3:13  and he did not restrain them.
1 Samuel 3:14 Therefore I swear to the house of Eli that the iniquity of Eli's house shall not be atoned for by sacrifice or offering forever.”
1 Samuel 3:15 Samuel lay until morning; then he opened the doors of the house of the LORD. And Samuel was afraid to tell the vision to Eli.
1 Samuel 3:16 But Eli called Samuel and said, “Samuel, my son.” And he said, “Here I am.”
1 Samuel 3:17 And Eli said, “What was it that he told you? Do not hide it from me. May God do so to you and more also if you hide anything from me of all that he told you.”
1 Samuel 3:18 So Samuel told him everything and hid nothing from him. And he said, “It is the LORD. Let him do what seems good to him.”
1 Samuel 3:19  and let none of his words fall to the ground.
1 Samuel 3:20 And all Israel from Dan to Beersheba knew that Samuel was established as a prophet of the LORD.
1 Samuel 3:21 And the LORD appeared again at Shiloh, for the LORD revealed himself to Samuel by the word of the LORD.
1 Samuel 4:1 And the word of Samuel came to all Israel. Now Israel went out to battle against the Philistines. They encamped at Aphek.
1 Samuel 4:2 The Philistines drew up in line against Israel, and when the battle spread, Israel was defeated before the Philistines, who killed about four thousand men on the field of battle.
1 Samuel 4:3 And when the people came to the camp, the elders of Israel said, “Why has the LORD defeated us today before the Philistines? Let us bring the ark of the covenant of the LORD here  may come among us and save us from the power of our enemies.”
1 Samuel 4:4 So the people sent to Shiloh and brought from there the ark of the covenant of the LORD of hosts, who is enthroned on the cherubim. And the two sons of Eli, Hophni and Phinehas, were there with the ark of the covenant of God.
1 Samuel 4:5 As soon as the ark of the covenant of the LORD came into the camp, all Israel gave a mighty shout, so that the earth resounded.
1 Samuel 4:6 And when the Philistines heard the noise of the shouting, they said, “What does this great shouting in the camp of the Hebrews mean?” And when they learned that the ark of the LORD had come to the camp,
1 Samuel 4:7 the Philistines were afraid, for they said, “A god has come into the camp.” And they said, “Woe to us! For nothing like this has happened before.
1 Samuel 4:8 Woe to us! Who can deliver us from the power of these mighty gods? These are the gods who struck the Egyptians with every sort of plague in the wilderness.
1 Samuel 4:9  as they have been to you; be men and fight.”
1 Samuel 4:10 So the Philistines fought, and they fled, every man to his home. And there was a very great slaughter, for thirty thousand foot soldiers of Israel fell.
1 Samuel 4:11  and the two sons of Eli, Hophni and Phinehas, died.
1 Samuel 4:12 A man of Benjamin ran from the battle line and came to Shiloh the same day, with his clothes torn and with dirt on his head.
1 Samuel 4:13 When he arrived, Eli was sitting on his seat by the road watching, for his heart trembled for the ark of God. And when the man came into the city and told the news, all the city cried out.
1 Samuel 4:14 When Eli heard the sound of the outcry, he said, “What is this uproar?” Then the man hurried and came and told Eli.
1 Samuel 4:15 Now Eli was ninety-eight years old and his eyes were set so that he could not see.
1 Samuel 4:16 And the man said to Eli, “I am he who has come from the battle; I fled from the battle today.” And he said, “How did it go, my son?”
1 Samuel 4:17 He who brought the news answered and said, “Israel has fled before the Philistines, and there has also been a great defeat among the people. Your two sons also, Hophni and Phinehas, are dead, and the ark of God has been captured.”
1 Samuel 4:18 As soon as he mentioned the ark of God, Eli fell over backward from his seat by the side of the gate, and his neck was broken and he died, for the man was old and heavy. He had judged Israel forty years.
1 Samuel 4:19 Now his daughter-in-law, the wife of Phinehas, was pregnant, about to give birth. And when she heard the news that the ark of God was captured, and that her father-in-law and her husband were dead, she bowed and gave birth, for her pains came upon her.
1 Samuel 4:20 And about the time of her death the women attending her said to her, “Do not be afraid, for you have borne a son.” But she did not answer or pay attention.
1 Samuel 4:21 And she named the child the ark of God had been captured and because of her father-in-law and her husband.
1 Samuel 4:22 And she said, “The glory has departed from Israel, for the ark of God has been captured.”
1 Samuel 5:1 When the Philistines captured the ark of God, they brought it from Ashdod.
1 Samuel 5:2 Then the Philistines took the ark of God and brought it into the house of Dagon and set it up beside Dagon.
1 Samuel 5:3 And when the people of Ashdod rose early the next day, behold, Dagon had fallen face downward on the ground before the ark of the LORD. So they took Dagon and put him back in his place.
1 Samuel 5:4 But when they rose early on the next morning, behold, Dagon had fallen face downward on the ground before the ark of the LORD, and the head of Dagon and both his hands were lying cut off on the threshold. Only the trunk of Dagon was left to him.
1 Samuel 5:5 This is why the priests of Dagon and all who enter the house of Dagon do not tread on the threshold of Dagon in Ashdod to this day.
1 Samuel 5:6  tumors, both Ashdod and its territory.
1 Samuel 5:7 And when the men of Ashdod saw how things were, they said, “The ark of the God of Israel must not remain with us, for his hand is hard against us and against Dagon our god.”
1 Samuel 5:8 So they sent and gathered together all the lords of the Philistines and said, “What shall we do with the ark of the God of Israel?” They answered, “Let the ark of the God of Israel be brought around to Gath.” So they brought the ark of the God of Israel there.
1 Samuel 5:9 But after they had brought it around, tumors broke out on them.
1 Samuel 5:10 So they sent the ark of God to Ekron. But as soon as the ark of God came to Ekron, the people of Ekron cried out, “They have brought around to us the ark of the God of Israel to kill us and our people.”
1 Samuel 5:11  The hand of God was very heavy there.
1 Samuel 5:12 The men who did not die were struck with tumors, and the cry of the city went up to heaven.
1 Samuel 6:1 The ark of the LORD was in the country of the Philistines seven months.
1 Samuel 6:2 And the Philistines called for the priests and the diviners and said, “What shall we do with the ark of the LORD? Tell us with what we shall send it to its place.”
1 Samuel 6:3 They said, “If you send away the ark of the God of Israel, do not send it empty, but by all means return him his hand does not turn away from you.”
1 Samuel 6:4 And they said, “What is the guilt offering that we shall return to him?” They answered, “Five golden according to the number of the lords of the Philistines, for the same plague was on all of you and on your lords.
1 Samuel 6:5 So you must make images of your and your gods and your land.
1 Samuel 6:6 Why should you harden your hearts as did they not send the people away, and they departed?
1 Samuel 6:7 Now then, take and prepare on which there has never come a yoke, and yoke the cows to the cart, but take their calves home, away from them.
1 Samuel 6:8 And take the ark of the LORD and place it on the cart and put in a box at its side a guilt offering. Then send it off and let it go its way
1 Samuel 6:9 and watch. If it goes up on the way to its own land, to his hand that struck us; it happened to us by coincidence.”
1 Samuel 6:10 The men did so, and took two milk cows and yoked them to the cart and shut up their calves at home.
1 Samuel 6:11 And they put the ark of the LORD on the cart and the box with the golden mice and the images of their tumors.
1 Samuel 6:12 And the cows went straight in the direction of Beth-shemesh.
1 Samuel 6:13 Now the people of Beth-shemesh were reaping their wheat harvest in the valley. And when they lifted up their eyes and saw the ark, they rejoiced to see it.
1 Samuel 6:14 The cart came into the field of Joshua of Beth-shemesh and stopped there. A great stone was there. And they split up the wood of the cart and offered the cows as a burnt offering to the LORD.
1 Samuel 6:15 And the Levites took down the ark of the LORD and the box that was beside it, in which were the golden figures, and set them upon Beth-shemesh offered burnt offerings and sacrificed sacrifices on that day to the LORD.
1 Samuel 6:16 And when the five lords of the Philistines saw it, they returned that day to Ekron.
1 Samuel 6:17 These are the golden tumors that the Philistines returned as a guilt offering to the LORD: one for Ashdod, one for Gaza, one for Ashkelon, one for Gath, one for Ekron,
1 Samuel 6:18 and the golden mice, according to the number of all the cities of the Philistines belonging to the five lords, The great stone beside which they set down the ark of the LORD is a witness to this day in the field of Joshua of Beth-shemesh.
1 Samuel 6:19   and the people mourned because the LORD had struck the people with a great blow.
1 Samuel 6:20 Then the men of Beth-shemesh said, “Who is able to stand before the LORD, this holy God? And to whom shall he go up away from us?”
1 Samuel 6:21 So they sent messengers to the inhabitants of Kiriath-jearim, saying, “The Philistines have returned the ark of the LORD. Come down and take it up to you.”
1 Samuel 7:1 And the men of Kiriath-jearim came and took up the ark of the LORD and brought it to the house of Abinadab on the hill. And they consecrated his son Eleazar to have charge of the ark of the LORD.
1 Samuel 7:2 From the day that the ark was lodged at Kiriath-jearim, a long time passed, some twenty years, and all the house of Israel lamented after the LORD.
1 Samuel 7:3 And Samuel said to all the house of Israel, and serve him only, and he will deliver you out of the hand of the Philistines.”
1 Samuel 7:4 So the people of Israel put away the Baals and the Ashtaroth, and they served the LORD only.
1 Samuel 7:5 Then Samuel said, “Gather all Israel at Mizpah, and I will pray to the LORD for you.”
1 Samuel 7:6 So they gathered at “We have sinned against the LORD.” And Samuel judged the people of Israel at Mizpah.
1 Samuel 7:7 Now when the Philistines heard that the people of Israel had gathered at Mizpah, the lords of the Philistines went up against Israel. And when the people of Israel heard of it, they were afraid of the Philistines.
1 Samuel 7:8 And the people of Israel said to Samuel, “Do not cease to cry out to the LORD our God for us, that he may save us from the hand of the Philistines.”
1 Samuel 7:9 So Samuel took a nursing lamb and offered it as a whole burnt offering to the LORD. And Samuel cried out to the LORD for Israel, and the LORD answered him.
1 Samuel 7:10 As Samuel was offering up the burnt offering, the Philistines drew near to attack Israel. But the LORD thundered with a mighty sound that day against the Philistines and threw them into confusion, and they were defeated before Israel.
1 Samuel 7:11 And the men of Israel went out from Mizpah and pursued the Philistines and struck them, as far as below Beth-car.
1 Samuel 7:12 Then Samuel  for he said, “Till now the LORD has helped us.”
1 Samuel 7:13  So the Philistines were subdued and did not again enter the territory of Israel. And the hand of the LORD was against the Philistines all the days of Samuel.
1 Samuel 7:14 The cities that the Philistines had taken from Israel were restored to Israel, from Ekron to Gath, and Israel delivered their territory from the hand of the Philistines. There was peace also between Israel and the Amorites.
1 Samuel 7:15  Samuel judged Israel all the days of his life.
1 Samuel 7:16 And he went on a circuit year by year to Bethel, Gilgal, and Mizpah. And he judged Israel in all these places.
1 Samuel 7:17 Then he would return to And he built there an altar to the LORD.
1 Samuel 8:1 When Samuel became old, he made his sons judges over Israel.
1 Samuel 8:2 The name of his firstborn son was Joel, and the name of his second, Abijah; they were judges in Beersheba.
1 Samuel 8:3 Yet his sons did not walk in his ways They took bribes and perverted justice.
1 Samuel 8:4 Then all the elders of Israel gathered together and came to Samuel at Ramah
1 Samuel 8:5 and said to him, “Behold, you are old and your sons do not walk in your ways. Now appoint for us a king to judge us like all the nations.”
1 Samuel 8:6 But the thing displeased Samuel when they said, “Give us a king to judge us.” And Samuel prayed to the LORD.
1 Samuel 8:7 And the LORD said to Samuel, “Obey the voice of the people in all that they say to you, but they have rejected me from being king over them.
1 Samuel 8:8 According to all the deeds that they have done, from the day I brought them up out of Egypt even to this day, forsaking me and serving other gods, so they are also doing to you.
1 Samuel 8:9 Now then, obey their voice; only you shall solemnly warn them and show them the ways of the king who shall reign over them.”
1 Samuel 8:10 So Samuel told all the words of the LORD to the people who were asking for a king from him.
1 Samuel 8:11 He said, he will take your sons and appoint them to his chariots and to be his horsemen and to run before his chariots.
1 Samuel 8:12 And he will appoint for himself commanders of thousands and commanders of fifties, and some to plow his ground and to reap his harvest, and to make his implements of war and the equipment of his chariots.
1 Samuel 8:13 He will take your daughters to be perfumers and cooks and bakers.
1 Samuel 8:14  He will take the best of your fields and vineyards and olive orchards and give them to his servants.
1 Samuel 8:15 He will take the tenth of your grain and of your vineyards and give it to his officers and to his servants.
1 Samuel 8:16 He will take your male servants and female servants and the best of your young men  and your donkeys, and put them to his work.
1 Samuel 8:17 He will take the tenth of your flocks, and you shall be his slaves.
1 Samuel 8:18 And in that day you will cry out because of your king, whom you have chosen for yourselves, but the LORD will not answer you in that day.”
1 Samuel 8:19 But the people refused to obey the voice of Samuel. And they said, “No! But there shall be a king over us,
1 Samuel 8:20  that we also may be like all the nations, and that our king may judge us and go out before us and fight our battles.”
1 Samuel 8:21 And when Samuel had heard all the words of the people, he repeated them in the ears of the LORD.
1 Samuel 8:22 And the LORD said to Samuel, “Obey their voice and make them a king.” Samuel then said to the men of Israel, “Go every man to his city.”
1 Samuel 9:1 There was a man of Benjamin whose name was Kish, the son of Abiel, son of Zeror, son of Becorath, son of Aphiah, a Benjaminite, a man of wealth.
1 Samuel 9:2 And he had a son whose name was Saul, From his shoulders upward he was taller than any of the people.
1 Samuel 9:3 Now the donkeys of Kish, Saul's father, were lost. So Kish said to Saul his son, “Take one of the young men with you, and arise, go and look for the donkeys.”
1 Samuel 9:4 And he passed through Shalishah, but they did not find them. And they passed through the land of Shaalim, but they were not there. Then they passed through the land of Benjamin, but did not find them.
1 Samuel 9:5 When they came to the land of Zuph, Saul said to his servant lest my father cease to care about the donkeys and become anxious about us.”
1 Samuel 9:6 But he said to him, “Behold, there is all that he says comes true. So now let us go there. Perhaps he can tell us the way we should go.”
1 Samuel 9:7 Then Saul said to his servant, “But if we go, what can we bring the man? For the bread in our sacks is gone, and there is no present to bring to the man of God. What do we have?”
1 Samuel 9:8 The servant answered Saul again, “Here, I have with me a quarter of a shekel  of silver, and I will give it to the man of God to tell us our way.”
1 Samuel 9:9 (Formerly in Israel, when a man went to inquire of God, he said, “Come, let us go to the seer,” for today's “prophet” was formerly called a seer.)
1 Samuel 9:10 And Saul said to his servant, “Well said; come, let us go.” So they went to the city where the man of God was.
1 Samuel 9:11 As they went up the hill to the city, they met young women coming out to draw water and said to them, “Is the seer here?”
1 Samuel 9:12 They answered, “He is; behold, he is just ahead of you. Hurry. He has come just now to the city, because the people the high place.
1 Samuel 9:13 As soon as you enter the city you will find him, before he goes up to the high place to eat. For the people will not eat till he comes, since he must bless the sacrifice; afterward those who are invited will eat. Now go up, for you will meet him immediately.”
1 Samuel 9:14 So they went up to the city. As they were entering the city, they saw Samuel coming out toward them on his way up to the high place.
1 Samuel 9:15 Now the day before Saul came, revealed to Samuel:
1 Samuel 9:16 “Tomorrow about this time I will send to you a man from the land of Benjamin,  my people, because their cry has come to me.”
1 Samuel 9:17 When Samuel saw Saul, the LORD told him, “Here is the man of whom I spoke to you! He it is who shall restrain my people.”
1 Samuel 9:18 Then Saul approached Samuel in the gate and said, “Tell me where is the house of the seer?”
1 Samuel 9:19 Samuel answered Saul, “I am the seer. Go up before me to the high place, for today you shall eat with me, and in the morning I will let you go and will tell you all that is on your mind.
1 Samuel 9:20  As for your donkeys that were lost three days ago, do not set your mind on them, for they have been found. And for whom is all that is desirable in Israel? Is it not for you and for all your father's house?”
1 Samuel 9:21 Saul answered, “Am I not a Benjaminite, And is not my clan the humblest of all the clans of the tribe of Benjamin? Why then have you spoken to me in this way?”
1 Samuel 9:22 Then Samuel took Saul and his young man and brought them into the hall and gave them a place at the head of those who had been invited, who were about thirty persons.
1 Samuel 9:23 And Samuel said to the cook, “Bring the portion I gave you, of which I said to you, ‘Put it aside.’”
1 Samuel 9:24 So the cook took up  So Saul ate with Samuel that day.
1 Samuel 9:25 And when they came down from the high place into the city, a bed was spread for Saul
1 Samuel 9:26 Then at the break of dawn  Samuel called to Saul on the roof, “Up, that I may send you on your way.” So Saul arose, and both he and Samuel went out into the street.
1 Samuel 9:27 As they were going down to the outskirts of the city, Samuel said to Saul, “Tell the servant to pass on before us, and when he has passed on, stop here yourself for a while, that I may make known to you the word of God.”
1 Samuel 10:1   over his heritage.
1 Samuel 10:2 When you depart from me today, you will meet two men by your father has ceased to care about the donkeys and is anxious about you, saying, “What shall I do about my son?”’
1 Samuel 10:3 Then you shall go on from there farther and come to the to God at Bethel will meet you there, one carrying three young goats, another carrying three loaves of bread, and another carrying a skin of wine.
1 Samuel 10:4 And they will greet you and give you two loaves of bread, which you shall accept from their hand.
1 Samuel 10:5 After that you shall come to from the high place with harp, tambourine, flute, and lyre before them, prophesying.
1 Samuel 10:6  and you will prophesy with them and be turned into another man.
1 Samuel 10:7 Now when for God is with you.
1 Samuel 10:8 Then go down before me Seven days you shall wait, until I come to you and show you what you shall do.”
1 Samuel 10:9 When he turned his back to leave Samuel, God gave him another heart. And all these signs came to pass that day.
1 Samuel 10:10 When they came to and the Spirit of God rushed upon him, and he prophesied among them.
1 Samuel 10:11 And when all who knew him previously saw how he prophesied with the prophets, the people said to one another, “What has come over the son of Kish? Is Saul also among the prophets?”
1 Samuel 10:12 And a man of the place answered, “Is Saul also among the prophets?”
1 Samuel 10:13 When he had finished prophesying, he came to the high place.
1 Samuel 10:14  “To seek the donkeys. And when we saw they were not to be found, we went to Samuel.”
1 Samuel 10:15 And Saul's uncle said, “Please tell me what Samuel said to you.”
1 Samuel 10:16 And Saul said to his uncle, “He told us plainly that the donkeys had been found.” But about the matter of the kingdom, of which Samuel had spoken, he did not tell him anything.
1 Samuel 10:17 Now Samuel called the people together at Mizpah.
1 Samuel 10:18 And he said to the people of Israel, “Thus says the LORD, the God of Israel, ‘I brought up Israel out of Egypt, and I delivered you from the hand of the Egyptians and from the hand of all the kingdoms that were oppressing you.’
1 Samuel 10:19  present yourselves before the LORD by your tribes and by your thousands.”
1 Samuel 10:20 Then Samuel brought all the tribes of Israel near, and the tribe of Benjamin was taken by lot.
1 Samuel 10:21 He brought the tribe of Benjamin near by its clans, and the clan of the Matrites was taken by lot;  and Saul the son of Kish was taken by lot. But when they sought him, he could not be found.
1 Samuel 10:22  So they inquired again of the LORD, “Is there a man still to come?” and the LORD said, “Behold, he has hidden himself among the baggage.”
1 Samuel 10:23 Then they ran and took him from there. And when he stood among the people, he was taller than any of the people from his shoulders upward.
1 Samuel 10:24 And Samuel said to all the people, “Do you see him “Long live the king!”
1 Samuel 10:25 Then Samuel told the people the rights and duties of the kingship, and he wrote them in a book and laid it up before the LORD. Then Samuel sent all the people away, each one to his home.
1 Samuel 10:26 Saul also went to his home at Gibeah, and with him went men of valor whose hearts God had touched.
1 Samuel 10:27 But some worthless fellows said, “How can this man save us?” And they despised him and brought him no present. But he held his peace.
1 Samuel 11:1  “Make a treaty with us, and we will serve you.”
1 Samuel 11:2 But Nahash the Ammonite said to them, “On this condition I will make a treaty with you, bring disgrace on all Israel.”
1 Samuel 11:3 The elders of Jabesh said to him, “Give us seven days' respite that we may send messengers through all the territory of Israel. Then, if there is no one to save us, we will give ourselves up to you.”
1 Samuel 11:4 When the messengers came to and all the people wept aloud.
1 Samuel 11:5 Now, behold, Saul was coming from the field behind the oxen. And Saul said, “What is wrong with the people, that they are weeping?” So they told him the news of the men of Jabesh.
1 Samuel 11:6  And the Spirit of God rushed upon Saul when he heard these words, and his anger was greatly kindled.
1 Samuel 11:7 He took a yoke of oxen as one man.
1 Samuel 11:8 When he mustered them at the people of Israel were three hundred thousand, and the men of Judah thirty thousand.
1 Samuel 11:9 And they said to the messengers who had come, “Thus shall you say to the men of Jabesh-gilead: ‘Tomorrow, by the time the sun is hot, you shall have salvation.’” When the messengers came and told the men of Jabesh, they were glad.
1 Samuel 11:10 Therefore the men of Jabesh said, “Tomorrow we will give ourselves up to you, and you may do to us whatever seems good to you.”
1 Samuel 11:11  in three companies. And they came into the midst of the camp in the morning watch and struck down the Ammonites until the heat of the day. And those who survived were scattered, so that no two of them were left together.
1 Samuel 11:12 Then the people said to Samuel, Bring the men, that we may put them to death.”
1 Samuel 11:13 But Saul said, salvation in Israel.”
1 Samuel 11:14 Then Samuel said to the people, “Come, let us go to Gilgal and there renew the kingdom.”
1 Samuel 11:15 So all the people went to they sacrificed peace offerings before the LORD, and there Saul and all the men of Israel rejoiced greatly.
1 Samuel 12:1 And Samuel said to all Israel, “Behold, I have obeyed and have made a king over you.
1 Samuel 12:2 And now, behold, the king and I am old and gray; and behold, my sons are with you. I have walked before you from my youth until this day.
1 Samuel 12:3 Here I am; testify against me before the LORD and before  and I will restore it to you.”
1 Samuel 12:4 They said, “You have not defrauded us or oppressed us or taken anything from any man's hand.”
1 Samuel 12:5 And he said to them, “The LORD is witness against you, and in my hand.” And they said, “He is witness.”
1 Samuel 12:6 And Samuel said to the people,  who appointed Moses and Aaron and brought your fathers up out of the land of Egypt.
1 Samuel 12:7 Now therefore stand still that I may plead with you before the LORD concerning all the righteous deeds of the LORD that he performed for you and for your fathers.
1 Samuel 12:8  who brought your fathers out of Egypt and made them dwell in this place.
1 Samuel 12:9 But and into the hand of the king of Moab. And they fought against them.
1 Samuel 12:10  deliver us out of the hand of our enemies, that we may serve you.’
1 Samuel 12:11 And the LORD sent Samuel and delivered you out of the hand of your enemies on every side, and you lived in safety.
1 Samuel 12:12 And when you saw that when the LORD your God was your king.
1 Samuel 12:13 And now the LORD has set a king over you.
1 Samuel 12:14 If you will fear the LORD and serve him and obey his voice and not rebel against the commandment of the LORD, and if both you and the king who reigns over you will follow the LORD your God, it will be well.
1 Samuel 12:15 But
1 Samuel 12:16 Now therefore stand still and see this great thing that the LORD will do before your eyes.
1 Samuel 12:17  your wickedness is great, which you have done in the sight of the LORD, in asking for yourselves a king.”
1 Samuel 12:18 So Samuel called upon the LORD, and the LORD sent thunder and rain that day, and all the people greatly feared the LORD and Samuel.
1 Samuel 12:19 And all the people said to Samuel, “Pray for your servants to the LORD your God, that we may not die, for we have added to all our sins this evil, to ask for ourselves a king.”
1 Samuel 12:20 And Samuel said to the people, “Do not be afraid; you have done all this evil. Yet do not turn aside from following the LORD, but serve the LORD with all your heart.
1 Samuel 12:21 And empty things that cannot profit or deliver, for they are empty.
1 Samuel 12:22  it has pleased the LORD to make you a people for himself.
1 Samuel 12:23 Moreover, as for me, far be it from me that I should sin against the LORD by ceasing and I will instruct you in the good and the right way.
1 Samuel 12:24  what great things he has done for you.
1 Samuel 12:25 But if you still do wickedly, both you and your king.”
1 Samuel 13:1 Saul lived for one year and then became king, and when he had reigned for two years over Israel,
1 Samuel 13:2 Saul chose three thousand men of Israel. Two thousand were with Saul in Gibeah of Benjamin. The rest of the people he sent home, every man to his tent.
1 Samuel 13:3 Jonathan defeated blew the trumpet throughout all the land, saying, “Let the Hebrews hear.”
1 Samuel 13:4 And all Israel heard it said that Saul had defeated the garrison of the Philistines, and also that Israel had become a stench to the Philistines. And the people were called out to join Saul at Gilgal.
1 Samuel 13:5 And the Philistines mustered to fight with Israel, thirty thousand chariots and six thousand horsemen and troops Beth-aven.
1 Samuel 13:6 When the men of Israel saw that they were in trouble (for the people were hard pressed), the people hid themselves in caves and in holes and in rocks and in tombs and in cisterns,
1 Samuel 13:7 and some Hebrews crossed the fords of the Jordan to the land of Gad and Gilead. Saul was still at Gilgal, and all the people followed him trembling.
1 Samuel 13:8  He waited seven days, the time appointed by Samuel. But Samuel did not come to Gilgal, and the people were scattering from him.
1 Samuel 13:9 So Saul said, “Bring the burnt offering here to me, and the peace offerings.” And he offered the burnt offering.
1 Samuel 13:10 As soon as he had finished offering the burnt offering, behold, Samuel came. And Saul went out to meet him and greet him.
1 Samuel 13:11 Samuel said, “What have you done?” And Saul said, “When I saw that the people were scattering from me, and that you did not come within the days appointed, and that the Philistines had mustered at Michmash,
1 Samuel 13:12 I said, ‘Now the Philistines will come down against me at Gilgal, and I have not sought the favor of the LORD.’ So I forced myself, and offered the burnt offering.”
1 Samuel 13:13 And Samuel said to Saul, You have not kept the command of the LORD your God, with which he commanded you. For then the LORD would have established your kingdom over Israel forever.
1 Samuel 13:14 But now  over his people, because you have not kept what the LORD commanded you.”
1 Samuel 13:15 And Samuel arose and went up from Gilgal. The rest of the people went up after Saul to meet the army; they went up from Gilgal about six hundred men.
1 Samuel 13:16 And Saul and Jonathan his son and the people who were present with them stayed in Geba of Benjamin, but the Philistines encamped in Michmash.
1 Samuel 13:17 And raiders came out of the camp of the Philistines in three companies. One company turned toward Ophrah, to the land of Shual;
1 Samuel 13:18 another company turned toward Zeboim toward the wilderness.
1 Samuel 13:19  Now there was no blacksmith to be found throughout all the land of Israel, for the Philistines said, “Lest the Hebrews make themselves swords or spears.”
1 Samuel 13:20 But every one of the Israelites went down to the Philistines to sharpen his plowshare, his mattock, his axe, or his sickle,
1 Samuel 13:21 and the charge was two-thirds of a shekel
1 Samuel 13:22 So on the day of the battle there was neither sword nor spear found in the hand of any of the people with Saul and Jonathan, but Saul and Jonathan his son had them.
1 Samuel 13:23 And Michmash.
1 Samuel 14:1 One day Jonathan the son of Saul said to the young man who carried his armor, “Come, let us go over to the Philistine garrison on the other side.” But he did not tell his father.
1 Samuel 14:2 Saul was staying in the outskirts of Gibeah in the pomegranate cave six hundred men,
1 Samuel 14:3 including wearing an ephod. And the people did not know that Jonathan had gone.
1 Samuel 14:4 Within the passes, by which Jonathan sought to go over to the Philistine garrison, there was a rocky crag on the one side and a rocky crag on the other side. The name of the one was Bozez, and the name of the other Seneh.
1 Samuel 14:5 The one crag rose on the north in front of Michmash, and the other on the south in front of Geba.
1 Samuel 14:6 Jonathan said to the young man who carried his armor, “Come, let us go over to the garrison of these for nothing can hinder the LORD from saving by many or by few.”
1 Samuel 14:7 And his armor-bearer said to him, “Do all that is in your heart. Do as you wish.  Behold, I am with you heart and soul.”
1 Samuel 14:8 Then Jonathan said, “Behold, we will cross over to the men, and we will show ourselves to them.
1 Samuel 14:9 If they say to us, ‘Wait until we come to you,’ then we will stand still in our place, and we will not go up to them.
1 Samuel 14:10 But if they say, ‘Come up to us,’ then we will go up, for the LORD has given them into our hand. And this shall be the sign to us.”
1 Samuel 14:11 So both of them showed themselves to the garrison of the Philistines. And the Philistines said, “Look, Hebrews are coming out of the holes where they have hidden themselves.”
1 Samuel 14:12 And the men of the garrison hailed Jonathan and his armor-bearer and said, “Come up to us, and we will show you a thing.” And Jonathan said to his armor-bearer, “Come up after me, for the LORD has given them into the hand of Israel.”
1 Samuel 14:13 Then Jonathan climbed up on his hands and feet, and his armor-bearer after him. And they fell before Jonathan, and his armor-bearer killed them after him.
1 Samuel 14:14 And that first strike, which Jonathan and his armor-bearer made, killed about twenty men within as it were half a furrow's length in an acre  of land.
1 Samuel 14:15 And there was a panic in the camp, in the field, and among all the people. The garrison and even
1 Samuel 14:16 And the watchmen of Saul in Gibeah of Benjamin looked, and behold, the multitude
1 Samuel 14:17 Then Saul said to the people who were with him, “Count and see who has gone from us.” And when they had counted, behold, Jonathan and his armor-bearer were not there.
1 Samuel 14:18 So Saul said to Ahijah, “Bring the ark of God here.” For the ark of God went at that time with the people  of Israel.
1 Samuel 14:19 Now while Saul was talking to the priest, the tumult in the camp of the Philistines increased more and more. So Saul said to the priest, “Withdraw your hand.”
1 Samuel 14:20 Then Saul and all the people who were with him rallied and went into the battle. And behold, every Philistine's sword was against his fellow, and there was very great confusion.
1 Samuel 14:21 Now the Hebrews who had been with the Philistines before that time and who had gone up with them into the camp, even they also turned to be with the Israelites who were with Saul and Jonathan.
1 Samuel 14:22 Likewise, when all the men of Israel in the hill country of Ephraim heard that the Philistines were fleeing, they too followed hard after them in the battle.
1 Samuel 14:23  Beth-aven.
1 Samuel 14:24 And the men of Israel had been hard pressed that day, so Saul had laid an oath on the people, saying, “Cursed be the man who eats food until it is evening and I am avenged on my enemies.” So none of the people had tasted food.
1 Samuel 14:25 Now when all the people  came to the forest, behold, there was honey on the ground.
1 Samuel 14:26 And when the people entered the forest, behold, the honey was dropping, but no one put his hand to his mouth, for the people feared the oath.
1 Samuel 14:27 But Jonathan had not heard his father charge the people with the oath, so he put out the tip of the staff that was in his hand and dipped it in the honeycomb and put his hand to his mouth, and his eyes became bright.
1 Samuel 14:28 Then one of the people said, “Your father strictly charged the people with an oath, saying, ‘Cursed be the man who eats food this day.’” And the people were faint.
1 Samuel 14:29 Then Jonathan said, “My father has troubled the land. See how my eyes have become bright because I tasted a little of this honey.
1 Samuel 14:30 How much better if the people had eaten freely today of the spoil of their enemies that they found. For now the defeat among the Philistines has not been great.”
1 Samuel 14:31 They struck down the Philistines that day from faint.
1 Samuel 14:32 The people with the blood.
1 Samuel 14:33 Then they told Saul, “Behold, the people are sinning against the LORD by eating
1 Samuel 14:34 And Saul said, “Disperse yourselves among the people and say to them, ‘Let every man bring his ox or his sheep and slaughter them here and eat, and do not sin against the LORD by eating with the blood.’” So every one of the people brought his ox with him that night and they slaughtered them there.
1 Samuel 14:35 And Saul built an altar to the LORD; it was the first altar that he built to the LORD.
1 Samuel 14:36 Then Saul said, “Let us go down after the Philistines by night and plunder them until the morning light; let us not leave a man of them.” And they said, “Do whatever seems good to you.” But the priest said, “Let us draw near to God here.”
1 Samuel 14:37 And Saul inquired of God, “Shall I go down after the Philistines? Will you give them into the hand of Israel?” But he did not answer him that day.
1 Samuel 14:38 And Saul said, “Come here, all you leaders of the people, and know and see how this sin has arisen today.
1 Samuel 14:39 For though it be in Jonathan my son, he shall surely die.” But there was not a man among all the people who answered him.
1 Samuel 14:40 Then he said to all Israel, “You shall be on one side, and I and Jonathan my son will be on the other side.” And the people said to Saul, “Do what seems good to you.”
1 Samuel 14:41 Therefore Saul said, “O LORD God of Israel, why have you not answered your servant this day? If this guilt is in me or in Jonathan my son, O LORD, God of Israel, give Urim. But if this guilt is in your people Israel, give Thummim.” And Jonathan and Saul were taken, but the people escaped.
1 Samuel 14:42 Then Saul said, “Cast the lot between me and my son Jonathan.” And Jonathan was taken.
1 Samuel 14:43 Then Saul said to Jonathan, “I tasted a little honey with the tip of the staff that was in my hand. Here I am; I will die.”
1 Samuel 14:44 And Saul said, you shall surely die, Jonathan.”
1 Samuel 14:45 Then the people said to Saul, “Shall Jonathan die, who has worked this great salvation in Israel? Far from it! there shall not one hair of his head fall to the ground, for he has worked with God this day.” So the people ransomed Jonathan, so that he did not die.
1 Samuel 14:46 Then Saul went up from pursuing the Philistines, and the Philistines went to their own place.
1 Samuel 14:47 When Saul had taken the kingship over Israel, he fought against all his enemies on every side, against Moab, Zobah, and against the Philistines. Wherever he turned he routed them.
1 Samuel 14:48 And he did valiantly and struck the Amalekites and delivered Israel out of the hands of those who plundered them.
1 Samuel 14:49  Merab, and the name of the younger Michal.
1 Samuel 14:50 And the name of Saul's wife was Ahinoam the daughter of Ahimaaz. Saul's uncle.
1 Samuel 14:51  Abiel.
1 Samuel 14:52 There was hard fighting against the Philistines all the days of Saul. And when Saul saw any strong man, or any valiant man, he attached him to himself.
1 Samuel 15:1 And Samuel said to Saul, “The LORD sent me to anoint you king over his people Israel; now therefore listen to the words of the LORD.
1 Samuel 15:2 Thus says the LORD of hosts, ‘I have noted what Amalek did to Israel in opposing them on the way when they came up out of Egypt.
1 Samuel 15:3 Now go and strike Amalek and but kill both man and woman, child and infant, ox and sheep, camel and donkey.’”
1 Samuel 15:4 So Saul summoned the people and numbered them in Telaim, two hundred thousand men on foot, and ten thousand men of Judah.
1 Samuel 15:5 And Saul came to the city of Amalek and lay in wait in the valley.
1 Samuel 15:6 Then Saul said to For you showed kindness to all the people of Israel when they came up out of Egypt.” So the Kenites departed from among the Amalekites.
1 Samuel 15:7  Shur, which is east of Egypt.
1 Samuel 15:8 And he took Agag the king of the Amalekites alive and devoted to destruction all the people with the edge of the sword.
1 Samuel 15:9   and the lambs, and all that was good, and would not utterly destroy them. All that was despised and worthless they devoted to destruction.
1 Samuel 15:10 The word of the LORD came to Samuel:
1 Samuel 15:11  has not performed my commandments.” And Samuel was angry, and he cried to the LORD all night.
1 Samuel 15:12 And Samuel rose early to meet Saul in the morning. And it was told Samuel, “Saul came to Carmel, and behold, he set up a monument for himself and turned and passed on and went down to Gilgal.”
1 Samuel 15:13 And Samuel came to Saul, and Saul said to him, “Blessed be you to the LORD. I have performed the commandment of the LORD.”
1 Samuel 15:14 And Samuel said, “What then is this bleating of the sheep in my ears and the lowing of the oxen that I hear?”
1 Samuel 15:15 Saul said, “They have brought them from the Amalekites, for the people spared the best of the sheep and of the oxen to sacrifice to the LORD your God, and the rest we have devoted to destruction.”
1 Samuel 15:16 Then Samuel said to Saul, “Stop! I will tell you what the LORD said to me this night.” And he said to him, “Speak.”
1 Samuel 15:17 And Samuel said, “Though you are little in your own eyes, are you not the head of the tribes of Israel? The LORD anointed you king over Israel.
1 Samuel 15:18 And the LORD sent you on a mission and said, ‘Go, devote to destruction the sinners, the Amalekites, and fight against them until they are consumed.’
1 Samuel 15:19 Why then did you not obey the voice of the LORD? Why did you pounce on the spoil and do what was evil in the sight of the LORD?”
1 Samuel 15:20 And Saul said to Samuel, “I have obeyed the voice of the LORD. I have gone on the mission on which the LORD sent me. I have brought Agag the king of Amalek, and I have devoted the Amalekites to destruction.
1 Samuel 15:21  But the people took of the spoil, sheep and oxen, the best of the things devoted to destruction, to sacrifice to the LORD your God in Gilgal.”
1 Samuel 15:22 And Samuel said,  to obey is better than sacrifice, and to listen than the fat of rams.
1 Samuel 15:23 For rebellion is as the sin of divination, and presumption is as iniquity andhe has also rejected you from being king.”
1 Samuel 15:24 Saul said to Samuel, “I have sinned, for I have transgressed the commandment of the LORD and your words, because I feared the people and obeyed their voice.
1 Samuel 15:25 Now therefore, please pardon my sin and return with me that I may bow before the LORD.”
1 Samuel 15:26 And Samuel said to Saul, “I will not return with you. and the LORD has rejected you from being king over Israel.”
1 Samuel 15:27  As Samuel turned to go away, Saul seized the skirt of his robe, and it tore.
1 Samuel 15:28 And Samuel said to him, “The LORD has torn the kingdom of Israel from you this day and has given it to a neighbor of yours, who is better than you.
1 Samuel 15:29 And also the Glory of Israel will not lie or have regret, for he is not a man, that he should have regret.”
1 Samuel 15:30 Then he said, “I have sinned; yet and return with me, that I may bow before the LORD your God.”
1 Samuel 15:31 So Samuel turned back after Saul, and Saul bowed before the LORD.
1 Samuel 15:32 Then Samuel said, “Bring here to me Agag the king of the Amalekites.” And Agag came to him cheerfully.  Agag said, “Surely the bitterness of death is past.”
1 Samuel 15:33 And Samuel said, in Gilgal.
1 Samuel 15:34 Then Samuel went Gibeah of Saul.
1 Samuel 15:35  And the LORD regretted that he had made Saul king over Israel.
1 Samuel 16:1 The LORD said to Samuel, for I have provided for myself a king among his sons.”
1 Samuel 16:2 And Samuel said, “How can I go? If Saul hears it, he will kill me.” And the LORD said, “Take a heifer with you and say, ‘I have come to sacrifice to the LORD.’
1 Samuel 16:3 And invite Jesse to the sacrifice, and I will show you what you shall do. And you shall anoint for me him whom I declare to you.”
1 Samuel 16:4 Samuel did what the LORD commanded and came to Bethlehem. The elders of the city “Do you come peaceably?”
1 Samuel 16:5 And he said, “Peaceably; I have come to sacrifice to the LORD. Consecrate yourselves, and come with me to the sacrifice.” And he consecrated Jesse and his sons and invited them to the sacrifice.
1 Samuel 16:6 When they came, he looked on Eliab and thought, “Surely the LORD's anointed is before him.”
1 Samuel 16:7 But the LORD said to Samuel, but the LORD looks on the heart.”
1 Samuel 16:8 Then Jesse called Abinadab and made him pass before Samuel. And he said, “Neither has the LORD chosen this one.”
1 Samuel 16:9 Then Jesse made Shammah pass by. And he said, “Neither has the LORD chosen this one.”
1 Samuel 16:10 And Jesse made seven of his sons pass before Samuel. And Samuel said to Jesse, “The LORD has not chosen these.”
1 Samuel 16:11 Then Samuel said to Jesse, “Are all your sons here?” And he said, “Send and get him, for we will not sit down till he comes here.”
1 Samuel 16:12 And he sent and brought him in. Now he was “Arise, anoint him, for this is he.”
1 Samuel 16:13 Then Samuel took And the Spirit of the LORD rushed upon David from that day forward. And Samuel rose up and went to Ramah.
1 Samuel 16:14  and a harmful spirit from the LORD tormented him.
1 Samuel 16:15 And Saul's servants said to him, “Behold now, a harmful spirit from God is tormenting you.
1 Samuel 16:16 Let our lord now command your servants play it, and you will be well.”
1 Samuel 16:17 So Saul said to his servants, “Provide for me a man who can play well and bring him to me.”
1 Samuel 16:18 One of the young men answered, “Behold, I have seen a son of Jesse the Bethlehemite, who is skillful in playing, and the LORD is with him.”
1 Samuel 16:19 Therefore Saul sent messengers to Jesse and said, “Send me David your son, who is with the sheep.”
1 Samuel 16:20  And Jesse took a donkey laden with bread and a skin of wine and a young goat and sent them by David his son to Saul.
1 Samuel 16:21 And David came to Saul and entered his service. And Saul loved him greatly, and he became his armor-bearer.
1 Samuel 16:22 And Saul sent to Jesse, saying, “Let David remain in my service, for he has found favor in my sight.”
1 Samuel 16:23 And and played it with his hand. So Saul was refreshed and was well, and the harmful spirit departed from him.
1 Samuel 17:1 Now the Philistines Ephes-dammim.
1 Samuel 17:2 And Saul and the men of Israel were gathered, and encamped in the Valley of Elah, and drew up in line of battle against the Philistines.
1 Samuel 17:3 And the Philistines stood on the mountain on the one side, and Israel stood on the mountain on the other side, with a valley between them.
1 Samuel 17:4 And there came out from the camp of the Philistines a champion named  and a span.
1 Samuel 17:5 He had a helmet of bronze on his head, and he was armed with a coat of mail, and the weight of the coat was five thousand shekels  of bronze.
1 Samuel 17:6 And he had bronze armor on his legs, and a javelin of bronze slung between his shoulders.
1 Samuel 17:7 The shaft of his spear was like a weaver's beam, and his spear's head weighed six hundred shekels of iron. And his shield-bearer went before him.
1 Samuel 17:8 He stood and shouted to the ranks of Israel, “Why have you come out to draw up for battle? Am I not a Philistine, and are you not servants of Saul? Choose a man for yourselves, and let him come down to me.
1 Samuel 17:9 If he is able to fight with me and kill me, then we will be your servants. But if I prevail against him and kill him, then you shall be our servants and serve us.”
1 Samuel 17:10 And the Philistine said, “I defy the ranks of Israel this day. Give me a man, that we may fight together.”
1 Samuel 17:11 When Saul and all Israel heard these words of the Philistine, they were dismayed and greatly afraid.
1 Samuel 17:12 Now David was
1 Samuel 17:13 The three oldest sons of Jesse had followed Saul to the battle. And the names of his three sons who went to the battle were Eliab the firstborn, and next to him Abinadab, and the third Shammah.
1 Samuel 17:14  David was the youngest. The three eldest followed Saul,
1 Samuel 17:15 but David went back and forth from Saul to feed his father's sheep at Bethlehem.
1 Samuel 17:16 For forty days the Philistine came forward and took his stand, morning and evening.
1 Samuel 17:17 And Jesse said to David his son, “Take for your brothers an ephah  of this parched grain, and these ten loaves, and carry them quickly to the camp to your brothers.
1 Samuel 17:18  See if your brothers are well, and bring some token from them.”
1 Samuel 17:19 Now Saul and they and all the men of Israel were in the Valley of Elah, fighting with the Philistines.
1 Samuel 17:20 And David rose early in the morning and left the sheep with a keeper and took the provisions and went, as Jesse had commanded him. And he came to the encampment as the host was going out to the battle line, shouting the war cry.
1 Samuel 17:21 And Israel and the Philistines drew up for battle, army against army.
1 Samuel 17:22 And David left the baggage and ran to the ranks and went and greeted his brothers.
1 Samuel 17:23 As he talked with them, behold, the same words as before. And David heard him.
1 Samuel 17:24 All the men of Israel, when they saw the man, fled from him and were much afraid.
1 Samuel 17:25 And the men of Israel said, “Have you seen this man who has come up? Surely he has come up to and will give him his daughter and make his father's house free in Israel.”
1 Samuel 17:26 And David said to the men who stood by him, “What shall be done for the man who kills this Philistine and takes away the living God?”
1 Samuel 17:27 And the people answered him in the same way, “So shall it be done to the man who kills him.”
1 Samuel 17:28 Now Eliab his eldest brother heard when he spoke to the men. And Eliab's anger was kindled against David, and he said, “Why have you come down? And with whom have you left those few sheep in the wilderness? I know your presumption and the evil of your heart, for you have come down to see the battle.”
1 Samuel 17:29 And David said, “What have I done now? Was it not but a word?”
1 Samuel 17:30 And he turned away from him toward another, and spoke in the same way, and the people answered him again as before.
1 Samuel 17:31 When the words that David spoke were heard, they repeated them before Saul, and he sent for him.
1 Samuel 17:32 And David said to Saul, Your servant will go and fight with this Philistine.”
1 Samuel 17:33 And Saul said to David, “You are not able to go against this Philistine to fight with him, for you are but a youth, and he has been a man of war from his youth.”
1 Samuel 17:34 But David said to Saul, “Your servant used to keep sheep for his father. And when there came a lion, or a bear, and took a lamb from the flock,
1 Samuel 17:35 I went after him and struck him and delivered it out of his mouth. And if he arose against me, I caught him by his beard and struck him and killed him.
1 Samuel 17:36 Your servant has struck down both lions and bears, and this uncircumcised Philistine shall be like one of them, for he has defied the armies of the living God.”
1 Samuel 17:37 And David said, and the LORD be with you!”
1 Samuel 17:38 Then Saul clothed David with his armor. He put a helmet of bronze on his head and clothed him with a coat of mail,
1 Samuel 17:39 and David strapped his sword over his armor. And he tried in vain to go, for he had not tested them. Then David said to Saul, “I cannot go with these, for I have not tested them.” So David put them off.
1 Samuel 17:40 Then he took his staff in his hand and chose five smooth stones from the brook and put them in his shepherd's pouch. His sling was in his hand, and he approached the Philistine.
1 Samuel 17:41 And the Philistine moved forward and came near to David, with his shield-bearer in front of him.
1 Samuel 17:42 And when the Philistine looked and saw David, he disdained him, for he was but a youth, ruddy and handsome in appearance.
1 Samuel 17:43 And the Philistine said to David, “Am I a dog, that you come to me with sticks?” And the Philistine cursed David by his gods.
1 Samuel 17:44 The Philistine said to David, “Come to me, and I will give your flesh to the birds of the air and to the beasts of the field.”
1 Samuel 17:45 Then David said to the Philistine, “You come to me with a sword and with a spear and with whom you have defied.
1 Samuel 17:46 This day the LORD will deliver you into my hand, and I will strike you down and cut off your head. that all the earth may know that there is a God in Israel,
1 Samuel 17:47 and that all this assembly may know that For the battle is the LORD's, and he will give you into our hand.”
1 Samuel 17:48 When the Philistine arose and came and drew near to meet David, David ran quickly toward the battle line to meet the Philistine.
1 Samuel 17:49 And David put his hand in his bag and took out a stone and slung it and struck the Philistine on his forehead. The stone sank into his forehead, and he fell on his face to the ground.
1 Samuel 17:50 So David prevailed over the Philistine with a sling and with a stone, and struck the Philistine and killed him. There was no sword in the hand of David.
1 Samuel 17:51 Then David ran and stood over the Philistine they fled.
1 Samuel 17:52 And the men of Israel and Judah rose with a shout and pursued the Philistines as far as Gath Gath and Ekron.
1 Samuel 17:53 And the people of Israel came back from chasing the Philistines, and they plundered their camp.
1 Samuel 17:54 And David took and brought it to Jerusalem, but he put his armor in his tent.
1 Samuel 17:55 As soon as Saul saw David go out against the Philistine, he said to Abner, “As your soul lives, O king, I do not know.”
1 Samuel 17:56 And the king said, “Inquire whose son the boy is.”
1 Samuel 17:57 And as soon as David returned from the striking down of the Philistine, Abner took him, and brought him before Saul with the head of the Philistine in his hand.
1 Samuel 17:58 And Saul said to him, “Whose son are you, young man?” And David answered, “I am the son of your servant Jesse the Bethlehemite.”
1 Samuel 18:1 As soon as he had finished speaking to Saul, the soul of Jonathan was knit to the soul of David, and Jonathan loved him as his own soul.
1 Samuel 18:2 And Saul took him that day and would not let him return to his father's house.
1 Samuel 18:3 Then Jonathan made a covenant with David, because he loved him as his own soul.
1 Samuel 18:4 And Jonathan stripped himself of the robe that was on him and gave it to David, and his armor, and even his sword and his bow and his belt.
1 Samuel 18:5 And David went out and was successful wherever Saul sent him, so that Saul set him over the men of war. And this was good in the sight of all the people and also in the sight of Saul's servants.
1 Samuel 18:6 As they were coming home, when David returned from striking down the Philistine,
1 Samuel 18:7 And the women“Saul has struck down his thousands, and David his ten thousands.”
1 Samuel 18:8 And Saul was very angry, and this saying displeased him. He said, “They have ascribed to David ten thousands, and to me they have ascribed thousands, and what more can he have but the kingdom?”
1 Samuel 18:9 And Saul eyed David from that day on.
1 Samuel 18:10 The next day Saul had his spear in his hand.
1 Samuel 18:11 And Saul hurled the spear, for he thought, “I will pin David to the wall.” But David evaded him twice.
1 Samuel 18:12  but had departed from Saul.
1 Samuel 18:13 So Saul removed him from his presence and made him a commander of a thousand. And he went out and came in before the people.
1 Samuel 18:14 And David for the LORD was with him.
1 Samuel 18:15 And when Saul saw that he had great success, he stood in fearful awe of him.
1 Samuel 18:16  But all Israel and Judah loved David, for he went out and came in before them.
1 Samuel 18:17 Then Saul said to David, “Here is but let the hand of the Philistines be against him.”
1 Samuel 18:18 And David said to Saul, “Who am I, and who are my relatives, my father's clan in Israel, that I should be son-in-law to the king?”
1 Samuel 18:19 But at the time when Merab, Saul's daughter, should have been given to David, she was given to Meholathite for a wife.
1 Samuel 18:20 Now loved David. And they told Saul, and the thing pleased him.
1 Samuel 18:21 Saul thought, “Let me give her to him, that she may “You shall now be my son-in-law.”
1 Samuel 18:22 And Saul commanded his servants, “Speak to David in private and say, ‘Behold, the king has delight in you, and all his servants love you. Now then become the king's son-in-law.’”
1 Samuel 18:23 And Saul's servants spoke those words in the ears of David. And David said, “Does it seem to you a little thing to become the king's son-in-law, since I am a poor man and have no reputation?”
1 Samuel 18:24 And the servants of Saul told him, “Thus and so did David speak.”
1 Samuel 18:25 Then Saul said, “Thus shall you say to David, ‘The king desires no Now Saul thought to make David fall by the hand of the Philistines.
1 Samuel 18:26 And when his servants told David these words, it pleased David well to be the king's son-in-law. Before the time had expired,
1 Samuel 18:27 David arose and went, And David brought their foreskins, which were given in full number to the king, that he might become the king's son-in-law. And Saul gave him his daughter Michal for a wife.
1 Samuel 18:28 But when Saul saw and knew that and that Michal, Saul's daughter, loved him,
1 Samuel 18:29 Saul was even more afraid of David. So Saul was David's enemy continually.
1 Samuel 18:30  David had more success than all the servants of Saul, so that his name was highly esteemed.
1 Samuel 19:1 And Saul spoke to Jonathan his son and to all his servants, that they should kill David. But Jonathan, Saul's son, delighted much in David.
1 Samuel 19:2 And Jonathan told David, “Saul my father seeks to kill you. Therefore be on your guard in the morning. Stay in a secret place and hide yourself.
1 Samuel 19:3 And I will go out and stand beside my father in the field where you are, and I will speak to my father about you. And if I learn anything I will tell you.”
1 Samuel 19:4 And Jonathan spoke well of David to Saul his father and said to him, “Let not the king sin against his servant David, because he has not sinned against you, and because his deeds have brought good to you.
1 Samuel 19:5 For innocent blood by killing David without cause?”
1 Samuel 19:6 And Saul listened to the voice of Jonathan. Saul swore, “As the LORD lives, he shall not be put to death.”
1 Samuel 19:7 And Jonathan called David, and Jonathan reported to him all these things. And Jonathan brought David to Saul, and he was in his presence as before.
1 Samuel 19:8 And there was war again. And David went out and fought with the Philistines and struck them with a great blow, so that they fled before him.
1 Samuel 19:9  And David was playing the lyre.
1 Samuel 19:10  And Saul sought to pin David to the wall with the spear, but he eluded Saul, so that he struck the spear into the wall. And David fled and escaped that night.
1 Samuel 19:11  Saul sent messengers to David's house to watch him, that he might kill him in the morning. But Michal, David's wife, told him, “If you do not escape with your life tonight, tomorrow you will be killed.”
1 Samuel 19:12  So Michal let David down through the window, and he fled away and escaped.
1 Samuel 19:13 Michal took  and laid it on the bed and put a pillow of goats' hair at its head and covered it with the clothes.
1 Samuel 19:14 And when Saul sent messengers to take David, she said, “He is sick.”
1 Samuel 19:15 Then Saul sent the messengers to see David, saying, “Bring him up to me in the bed, that I may kill him.”
1 Samuel 19:16 And when the messengers came in, behold, the image was in the bed, with the pillow of goats' hair at its head.
1 Samuel 19:17 Saul said to Michal, “Why have you deceived me thus and let my enemy go, so that he has escaped?” And Michal answered Saul, “He said to me, ‘Let me go. Why should I kill you?’”
1 Samuel 19:18 Now David fled and escaped, and he came to Samuel at Ramah and told him all that Saul had done to him. And he and Samuel went and lived at Naioth.
1 Samuel 19:19 And it was told Saul, “Behold, David is at Naioth in Ramah.”
1 Samuel 19:20 Then Saul sent messengers to take David, and when they saw the company of the prophets prophesying, and Samuel standing as head over them, and they also prophesied.
1 Samuel 19:21 When it was told Saul, he sent other messengers, and they also prophesied.
1 Samuel 19:22 Then he himself went to Ramah and came to the great well that is in Secu. And he asked, “Where are Samuel and David?” And one said, “Behold, they are at Naioth in Ramah.”
1 Samuel 19:23 And he went there to Naioth in Ramah. And the Spirit of God came upon him also, and as he went he prophesied until he came to Naioth in Ramah.
1 Samuel 19:24  “Is Saul also among the prophets?”
1 Samuel 20:1 Then David fled from Naioth in Ramah and came and said before Jonathan, “What have I done? What is my guilt? And what is my sin before your father, that he seeks my life?”
1 Samuel 20:2 And he said to him, “Far from it! You shall not die. Behold, my father does nothing either great or small without disclosing it to me. And why should my father hide this from me? It is not so.”
1 Samuel 20:3 But David vowed again, saying, “Your father knows well that as your soul lives, there is but a step between me and death.”
1 Samuel 20:4 Then Jonathan said to David, “Whatever you say, I will do for you.”
1 Samuel 20:5 David said to Jonathan, “Behold, tomorrow is that I may hide myself in the field till the third day at evening.
1 Samuel 20:6  sacrifice there for all the clan.’
1 Samuel 20:7 If he says, ‘Good!’ it will be well with your servant, but if he is angry, then know that harm is determined by him.
1 Samuel 20:8 Therefore deal kindly with your servant, But if there is guilt in me, kill me yourself, for why should you bring me to your father?”
1 Samuel 20:9 And Jonathan said, “Far be it from you! If I knew that it was determined by my father that harm should come to you, would I not tell you?”
1 Samuel 20:10 Then David said to Jonathan, “Who will tell me if your father answers you roughly?”
1 Samuel 20:11 And Jonathan said to David, “Come, let us go out into the field.” So they both went out into the field.
1 Samuel 20:12 And Jonathan said to David, “The LORD, the God of Israel, be witness!  When I have sounded out my father, about this time tomorrow, or the third day, behold, if he is well disposed toward David, shall I not then send and disclose it to you?
1 Samuel 20:13 But should it please my father to do you harm, May the LORD be with you, as he has been with my father.
1 Samuel 20:14 If I am still alive, show me the steadfast love of the LORD, that I may not die;
1 Samuel 20:15   your steadfast love from my house forever, when the LORD cuts off every one of the enemies of David from the face of the earth.”
1 Samuel 20:16 And Jonathan made a covenant with the house of David, saying,  the LORD take vengeance on David's enemies.”
1 Samuel 20:17 And Jonathan made David swear again by his love for him, for he loved him as he loved his own soul.
1 Samuel 20:18 Then Jonathan said to him, your seat will be empty.
1 Samuel 20:19 On the third day go down quickly to the place where you hid yourself when the matter was in hand, and remain beside the stone heap.
1 Samuel 20:20 And I will shoot three arrows to the side of it, as though I shot at a mark.
1 Samuel 20:21 And behold, I will send the boy, saying, ‘Go, find the arrows.’ If I say to the boy, ‘Look, the arrows are on this side of you, take them,’ then you are to come, for, as the LORD lives, it is safe for you and there is no danger.
1 Samuel 20:22 But if I say to the youth, ‘Look, the arrows are beyond you,’ then go, for the LORD has sent you away.
1 Samuel 20:23  the LORD is between you and me forever.”
1 Samuel 20:24 So David hid himself in the field. And when the new moon came, the king sat down to eat food.
1 Samuel 20:25 The king sat on his seat, as at other times, on the seat by the wall. Jonathan sat opposite, but David's place was empty.
1 Samuel 20:26 Yet Saul did not say anything that day, for he thought, “Something has happened to him. He is not clean; surely he is not clean.”
1 Samuel 20:27 But on David's place was empty. And Saul said to Jonathan his son, “Why has not the son of Jesse come to the meal, either yesterday or today?”
1 Samuel 20:28 Jonathan answered Saul, “David earnestly asked leave of me to go to Bethlehem.
1 Samuel 20:29 He said, ‘Let me go, for our clan holds a sacrifice in the city, and my brother has commanded me to be there. So now, if I have found favor in your eyes, let me get away and see my brothers.’ For this reason he has not come to the king's table.”
1 Samuel 20:30 Then Saul's anger was kindled against Jonathan, and he said to him, “You son of a perverse, rebellious woman, do I not know that you have chosen the son of Jesse to your own shame, and to the shame of your mother's nakedness?
1 Samuel 20:31 For as long as the son of Jesse lives on the earth, neither you nor your kingdom shall be established. Therefore send and bring him to me, for he shall surely die.”
1 Samuel 20:32 Then Jonathan answered Saul his father, “Why should he be put to death? What has he done?”
1 Samuel 20:33  that his father was determined to put David to death.
1 Samuel 20:34 And Jonathan rose from the table in fierce anger and ate no food the second day of the month, for he was grieved for David, because his father had disgraced him.
1 Samuel 20:35 In the morning Jonathan went out into the field to the appointment with David, and with him a little boy.
1 Samuel 20:36 And he said to his boy, “Run and find the arrows that I shoot.” As the boy ran, he shot an arrow beyond him.
1 Samuel 20:37 And when the boy came to the place of the arrow that Jonathan had shot, Jonathan called after the boy and said, “Is not the arrow beyond you?”
1 Samuel 20:38 And Jonathan called after the boy, “Hurry! Be quick! Do not stay!” So Jonathan's boy gathered up the arrows and came to his master.
1 Samuel 20:39 But the boy knew nothing. Only Jonathan and David knew the matter.
1 Samuel 20:40 And Jonathan gave his weapons to his boy and said to him, “Go and carry them to the city.”
1 Samuel 20:41 And as soon as the boy had gone, David rose from beside the stone heap  and fell on his face to the ground and bowed three times. And they kissed one another and wept with one another, David weeping the most.
1 Samuel 20:42 Then Jonathan said to David,
1 Samuel 21:1  came to meet David, trembling, and said to him, “Why are you alone, and no one with you?”
1 Samuel 21:2 And David said to Ahimelech the priest, “The king has charged me with a matter and said to me, ‘Let no one know anything of the matter about which I send you, and with which I have charged you.’ I have made an appointment with the young men for such and such a place.
1 Samuel 21:3 Now then, what do you have on hand? Give me five loaves of bread, or whatever is here.”
1 Samuel 21:4 And the priest answered David, “I have no common bread on hand, but there is if the young men have kept themselves from women.”
1 Samuel 21:5 And David answered the priest, “Truly women have been kept from us as always when I go on an expedition. The vessels of the young men are holy even when it is an ordinary journey. How much more today will their vessels be holy?”
1 Samuel 21:6 So the priest gave him which is removed from before the LORD, to be replaced by hot bread on the day it is taken away.
1 Samuel 21:7 Now a certain man of the servants of Saul was there that day, detained before the LORD. His name was Doeg the Edomite, the chief of Saul's herdsmen.
1 Samuel 21:8 Then David said to Ahimelech, “Then have you not here a spear or a sword at hand? For I have brought neither my sword nor my weapons with me, because the king's business required haste.”
1 Samuel 21:9 And the priest said, the Valley of Elah, behold, it is here wrapped in a cloth behind the ephod. If you will take that, take it, for there is none but that here.” And David said, “There is none like that; give it to me.”
1 Samuel 21:10 And David rose and fled that day from Saul and went to Achish the king of Gath.
1 Samuel 21:11 And the servants of Achish said to him, “Is not this David the king of the land? Did they not sing to one another of him in dances, ‘Saul has struck down his thousands, and David his ten thousands’?”
1 Samuel 21:12 And David took these words to heart and was much afraid of Achish the king of Gath.
1 Samuel 21:13 So he changed his behavior before them and pretended to be insane in their hands and made marks on the doors of the gate and let his spittle run down his beard.
1 Samuel 21:14 Then Achish said to his servants, “Behold, you see the man is mad. Why then have you brought him to me?
1 Samuel 21:15 Do I lack madmen, that you have brought this fellow to behave as a madman in my presence? Shall this fellow come into my house?”
1 Samuel 22:1 David departed from there and escaped to Adullam. And when his brothers and all his father's house heard it, they went down there to him.
1 Samuel 22:2  about four hundred men.
1 Samuel 22:3 And David went from there to Mizpeh of Moab. And he said to the king of Moab, “Please let my father and my mother stay  with you, till I know what God will do for me.”
1 Samuel 22:4 And he left them with the king of Moab, and they stayed with him all the time that David was in the stronghold.
1 Samuel 22:5 Then the prophet Gad said to David, “Do not remain in the stronghold; depart, and go into the land of Judah.” So David departed and went into the forest of Hereth.
1 Samuel 22:6 Now Saul heard that David was discovered, and the men who were with him. Saul was sitting at Gibeah under the tamarisk tree on the height with his spear in his hand, and all his servants were standing about him.
1 Samuel 22:7 And Saul said to his servants who stood about him, “Hear now, people of Benjamin; will the son of Jesse give every one of you fields and vineyards, will he make you all commanders of thousands and commanders of hundreds,
1 Samuel 22:8 that all of you have conspired against me? No one discloses to me to lie in wait, as at this day.”
1 Samuel 22:9 Then answered Ahimelech the son of Ahitub,
1 Samuel 22:10  gave him provisions and gave him the sword of Goliath the Philistine.”
1 Samuel 22:11 Then the king sent to summon Ahimelech the priest, the son of Ahitub, and all his father's house, the priests who were at Nob, and all of them came to the king.
1 Samuel 22:12 And Saul said, “Hear now, son of Ahitub.” And he answered, “Here I am, my lord.”
1 Samuel 22:13 And Saul said to him, “Why have you conspired against me, you and the son of Jesse, in that you have given him bread and a sword and to lie in wait, as at this day?”
1 Samuel 22:14 Then Ahimelech answered the king, “And who among all your servants is so faithful as David, who is the king's son-in-law, and captain over  your bodyguard, and honored in your house?
1 Samuel 22:15 Is today the first time much or little.”
1 Samuel 22:16 And the king said, “You shall surely die, Ahimelech, you and all your father's house.”
1 Samuel 22:17 And the king said to the guard who stood about him, “Turn and kill the priests of the LORD, because their hand also is with David, and they knew that he fled and did not disclose it to me.” But the servants of the king would not put out their hand to strike the priests of the LORD.
1 Samuel 22:18 Then the king said to Doeg, “You turn and strike the priests.” And Doeg the Edomite turned and struck down the priests, and he killed on that day eighty-five persons who wore the linen ephod.
1 Samuel 22:19 And Nob, the city of the priests, he put to the sword; both man and woman, child and infant, ox, donkey and sheep, he put to the sword.
1 Samuel 22:20 But one of the sons of Ahimelech the son of Ahitub, named Abiathar, escaped and fled after David.
1 Samuel 22:21 And Abiathar told David that Saul had killed the priests of the LORD.
1 Samuel 22:22 And David said to Abiathar, “I knew on that day, when Doeg the Edomite was there, that he would surely tell Saul. I have occasioned the death of all the persons of your father's house.
1 Samuel 22:23  Stay with me; do not be afraid, for he who seeks my life seeks your life. With me you shall be in safekeeping.”
1 Samuel 23:1 Now they told David, “Behold, the Philistines are fighting against Keilah and are robbing the threshing floors.”
1 Samuel 23:2 Therefore David inquired of the LORD, “Shall I go and attack these Philistines?” And the LORD said to David, “Go and attack the Philistines and save Keilah.”
1 Samuel 23:3 But David's men said to him, “Behold, we are afraid here in Judah; how much more then if we go to Keilah against the armies of the Philistines?”
1 Samuel 23:4 Then David for I will give the Philistines into your hand.”
1 Samuel 23:5 And David and his men went to Keilah and fought with the Philistines and brought away their livestock and struck them with a great blow. So David saved the inhabitants of Keilah.
1 Samuel 23:6  When Abiathar the son of Ahimelech had fled to David to Keilah, he had come down with an ephod in his hand.
1 Samuel 23:7 Now it was told Saul that David had come to Keilah. And Saul said, “God has given him into my hand, for he has shut himself in by entering a town that has gates and bars.”
1 Samuel 23:8 And Saul summoned all the people to war, to go down to Keilah, to besiege David and his men.
1 Samuel 23:9 David knew that Saul was plotting harm against him. And he said to Abiathar the priest, “Bring the ephod here.”
1 Samuel 23:10 Then David said, “O LORD, the God of Israel, your servant has surely heard that Saul seeks to come to Keilah, to destroy the city on my account.
1 Samuel 23:11 Will the men of Keilah surrender me into his hand? Will Saul come down, as your servant has heard? O LORD, the God of Israel, please tell your servant.” And the LORD said, “He will come down.”
1 Samuel 23:12 Then David said, “Will the men of Keilah surrender me and my men into the hand of Saul?” And the LORD said, “They will surrender you.”
1 Samuel 23:13 Then David and his men, wherever they could go. When Saul was told that David had escaped from Keilah, he gave up the expedition.
1 Samuel 23:14 And David remained in the strongholds in the wilderness, in the hill country Ziph. And Saul sought him every day, but God did not give him into his hand.
1 Samuel 23:15 David saw that Saul had come out to seek his life. David was in the wilderness of Ziph at Horesh.
1 Samuel 23:16 And Jonathan, Saul's son, rose and went to David at Horesh, and strengthened his hand in God.
1 Samuel 23:17 And he said to him, “Do not fear, for the hand of Saul my father shall not find you. You shall be king over Israel, and I shall be next to you. Saul my father also knows this.”
1 Samuel 23:18  And the two of them made a covenant before the LORD. David remained at Horesh, and Jonathan went home.
1 Samuel 23:19  Jeshimon?
1 Samuel 23:20 Now come down, O king, according to all your heart's desire to come down, and our part shall be to surrender him into the king's hand.”
1 Samuel 23:21 And Saul said, for you have had compassion on me.
1 Samuel 23:22 Go, make yet more sure. Know and see the place where his foot is, and who has seen him there, for it is told me that he is very cunning.
1 Samuel 23:23 See therefore and take note of all the lurking places where he hides, and come back to me with sure information. Then I will go with you. And if he is in the land, I will search him out among all the thousands of Judah.”
1 Samuel 23:24 And they arose and went to Ziph ahead of Saul. Now David and his men were Jeshimon.
1 Samuel 23:25 And Saul and his men went to seek him. And David was told, so he went down to the rock and lived in the wilderness of Maon. And when Saul heard that, he pursued after David in the wilderness of Maon.
1 Samuel 23:26 Saul went on one side of the mountain, and David and his men on the other side of the mountain. And David was hurrying to get away from Saul. As Saul and his men were closing in on David and his men to capture them,
1 Samuel 23:27 a messenger came to Saul, saying, “Hurry and come, for the Philistines have made a raid against the land.”
1 Samuel 23:28 So Saul returned from pursuing after David and went against the Philistines. Therefore that place was called the Rock of Escape.
1 Samuel 23:29  Engedi.
1 Samuel 24:1  When Saul returned from following the Philistines, he was told, “Behold, David is in the wilderness of Engedi.”
1 Samuel 24:2 Then Saul took three thousand chosen men out of all Israel and went to seek David and his men in front of the Wildgoats' Rocks.
1 Samuel 24:3 And he came to the sheepfolds by the way, where there was a cave, and Saul went in of the cave.
1 Samuel 24:4 And the men of David said to him, “Here is the day of which the LORD said to you, ‘Behold, I will give your enemy into your hand, and you shall do to him as it shall seem good to you.’” Then David arose and stealthily cut off a corner of Saul's robe.
1 Samuel 24:5 And afterward David's heart struck him, because he had cut off a corner of Saul's robe.
1 Samuel 24:6 He said to his men, the LORD's anointed.”
1 Samuel 24:7 So David persuaded his men with these words and did not permit them to attack Saul. And Saul rose up and left the cave and went on his way.
1 Samuel 24:8 Afterward David also arose and went out of the cave, and called after Saul, “My lord the king!” And when Saul looked behind him, David bowed with his face to the earth and paid homage.
1 Samuel 24:9 And David said to Saul, “Why do you listen to the words of men who say, ‘Behold, David seeks your harm’?
1 Samuel 24:10 Behold, this day your eyes have seen how the LORD gave you today into my hand in the cave. for he is the LORD's anointed.’
1 Samuel 24:11 See, my father, see the corner of your robe in my hand. For by the fact that I cut off the corner of your robe and did not kill you, you may know and see that you hunt my life to take it.
1 Samuel 24:12  May the LORD judge between me and you, may the LORD avenge me against you, but my hand shall not be against you.
1 Samuel 24:13 As the proverb of the ancients says, ‘Out of the wicked comes wickedness.’ But my hand shall not be against you.
1 Samuel 24:14 After whom has the king of Israel come out? After whom do you pursue? After a flea!
1 Samuel 24:15  plead my cause and deliver me from your hand.”
1 Samuel 24:16 As soon as David had finished speaking these words to Saul, Saul said, “Is this your voice, my son David?” And Saul lifted up his voice and wept.
1 Samuel 24:17 He said to David, “You are more righteous than I, for you have repaid me good, whereas I have repaid you evil.
1 Samuel 24:18 And you have declared this day how you have dealt well with me, in that you did not kill me when the LORD put me into your hands.
1 Samuel 24:19 For if a man finds his enemy, will he let him go away safe? So may the LORD reward you with good for what you have done to me this day.
1 Samuel 24:20 And now, behold, I know that you shall surely be king, and that the kingdom of Israel shall be established in your hand.
1 Samuel 24:21  that you will not destroy my name out of my father's house.”
1 Samuel 24:22 And David swore this to Saul. Then Saul went home, but David and his men went up to the stronghold.
1 Samuel 25:1  the wilderness of Paran.
1 Samuel 25:2 And there was a man in He was shearing his sheep in Carmel.
1 Samuel 25:3 Now the name of the man was Nabal, and the name of his wife Abigail. The woman was discerning and beautiful, but the man was harsh and badly behaved; he was a Calebite.
1 Samuel 25:4 David heard in the wilderness that Nabal was shearing his sheep.
1 Samuel 25:5 So David sent ten young men. And David said to the young men, “Go up to Carmel, and go to Nabal and greet him in my name.
1 Samuel 25:6 And thus you shall greet him: ‘Peace be to you, and peace be to your house, and peace be to all that you have.
1 Samuel 25:7 I hear that you have shearers. Now your shepherds have been with us, and we did them no harm, and they missed nothing all the time they were in Carmel.
1 Samuel 25:8 Ask your young men, and they will tell you. Therefore let my young men find favor in your eyes, for we come on a feast day. Please give whatever you have at hand to your servants and to your son David.’”
1 Samuel 25:9 When David's young men came, they said all this to Nabal in the name of David, and then they waited.
1 Samuel 25:10 And Nabal answered David's servants, There are many servants these days who are breaking away from their masters.
1 Samuel 25:11 Shall I take men who come from I do not know where?”
1 Samuel 25:12 So David's young men turned away and came back and told him all this.
1 Samuel 25:13 And David said to his men, “Every man strap on his sword!” And every man of them strapped on his sword. David also strapped on his sword. And remained with the baggage.
1 Samuel 25:14 But one of the young men told Abigail, Nabal's wife, “Behold, David sent messengers out of the wilderness to greet our master, and he railed at them.
1 Samuel 25:15 Yet the men were very good to us, and we suffered no harm, and we did not miss anything when we were in the fields, as long as we went with them.
1 Samuel 25:16 They were a wall to us both by night and by day, all the while we were with them keeping the sheep.
1 Samuel 25:17 Now therefore know this and consider what you should do, a worthless man that one cannot speak to him.”
1 Samuel 25:18 Then Abigail made haste and took two hundred loaves and two skins of wine and five sheep already prepared and five seahs  of parched grain and a hundred clusters of raisins and two hundred cakes of figs, and laid them on donkeys.
1 Samuel 25:19 And she said to her young men, “Go on before me; behold, I come after you.” But she did not tell her husband Nabal.
1 Samuel 25:20 And as she rode on the donkey and came down under cover of the mountain, behold, David and his men came down toward her, and she met them.
1 Samuel 25:21 Now David had said, “Surely in vain have I guarded all that this fellow has in the wilderness, returned me evil for good.
1 Samuel 25:22   and more also, if by morning I leave so much as one male of all who belong to him.”
1 Samuel 25:23 When Abigail saw David, she hurried and fell before David on her face and bowed to the ground.
1 Samuel 25:24 She fell at his feet and said, “On me alone, my lord, be the guilt. Please let your servant speak in your ears, and hear the words of your servant.
1 Samuel 25:25 Let not my lord regard  is his name, and folly is with him. But I your servant did not see the young men of my lord, whom you sent.
1 Samuel 25:26 Now then, my lord, let your enemies and those who seek to do evil to my lord be as Nabal.
1 Samuel 25:27 And now let this present that your servant has brought to my lord be given to the young men who follow my lord.
1 Samuel 25:28 Please forgive the trespass of your servant. For the LORD will certainly make my lord is fighting the battles of the LORD, and evil shall not be found in you so long as you live.
1 Samuel 25:29 If men rise up to pursue you and to seek your life, the life of my lord shall be bound in the bundle of the living in the care of the LORD your God. And the lives of your enemies he shall sling out as from the hollow of a sling.
1 Samuel 25:30 And when the LORD has done to my lord according to all the good that he has spoken concerning you and has appointed you prince  over Israel,
1 Samuel 25:31 my lord shall have no cause of grief or pangs of conscience for having shed blood without cause or for my lord working salvation himself. And when the LORD has dealt well with my lord, then remember your servant.”
1 Samuel 25:32 And David said to Abigail, “Blessed be the LORD, the God of Israel, who sent you this day to meet me!
1 Samuel 25:33 Blessed be your discretion, and blessed be you, and from working salvation with my own hand!
1 Samuel 25:34 For as surely who has restrained me from hurting you, unless you had hurried and come to meet me, truly by morning there had not been left to Nabal so much as one male.”
1 Samuel 25:35 Then David received from her hand what she had brought him. And he said to her, “Go up in peace to your house. See, I have obeyed your voice, and I have granted your petition.”
1 Samuel 25:36 And Abigail came to Nabal, and behold, at all until the morning light.
1 Samuel 25:37 In the morning, when the wine had gone out of Nabal, his wife told him these things, and his heart died within him, and he became as a stone.
1 Samuel 25:38 And about ten days later the LORD struck Nabal, and he died.
1 Samuel 25:39 When David heard that Nabal was dead, he said, spoke to Abigail, to take her as his wife.
1 Samuel 25:40 When the servants of David came to Abigail at Carmel, they said to her, “David has sent us to you to take you to him as his wife.”
1 Samuel 25:41 And she rose and bowed with her face to the ground and said, “Behold, your handmaid is a servant to wash the feet of the servants of my lord.”
1 Samuel 25:42 And Abigail hurried and rose and mounted a donkey, and her five young women attended her. She followed the messengers of David and became his wife.
1 Samuel 25:43 David also took Ahinoam of and both of them became his wives.
1 Samuel 25:44 Saul had given Michal his daughter, David's wife, to Palti the son of Laish, who was of Gallim.
1 Samuel 26:1  Then the Ziphites came to Saul at Gibeah, saying, “Is not David hiding himself on the hill of Hachilah, which is on the east of Jeshimon?”
1 Samuel 26:2 So Saul arose and went down to three thousand chosen men of Israel to seek David in the wilderness of Ziph.
1 Samuel 26:3 And Saul encamped on the hill of Hachilah, which is beside the road on the east of Jeshimon. But David remained in the wilderness. When he saw that Saul came after him into the wilderness,
1 Samuel 26:4 David sent out spies and learned that Saul had indeed come.
1 Samuel 26:5 Then David rose and came to the place where Saul had encamped. And David saw the place where Saul lay, with the encampment, while the army was encamped around him.
1 Samuel 26:6 Then David said to Ahimelech the Hittite, and to Joab's brother “Who will go down with me into the camp to Saul?” And Abishai said, “I will go down with you.”
1 Samuel 26:7 So David and Abishai went to the army by night. And there lay Saul sleeping within at his head, and Abner and the army lay around him.
1 Samuel 26:8 Then Abishai said to David, “God has given your enemy into your hand this day. Now please let me pin him to the earth with one stroke of the spear, and I will not strike him twice.”
1 Samuel 26:9 But David said to Abishai, “Do not destroy him, for who can put out his hand against the LORD's anointed and be guiltless?”
1 Samuel 26:10 And David said, or he will go down into battle and perish.
1 Samuel 26:11  at his head and the jar of water, and let us go.”
1 Samuel 26:12 So David took the spear and the jar of water from Saul's head, and they went away. No man saw it or knew it, nor did any awake, for they were all asleep, because a deep sleep from the LORD had fallen upon them.
1 Samuel 26:13 Then David went over to the other side and stood far off on the top of the hill, with a great space between them.
1 Samuel 26:14 And David called to the army, and to Abner the son of Ner, saying, “Will you not answer, Abner?” Then Abner answered, “Who are you who calls to the king?”
1 Samuel 26:15 And David said to Abner, “Are you not a man? Who is like you in Israel? Why then have you not kept watch over your lord the king? For one of the people came in to destroy the king your lord.
1 Samuel 26:16 This thing that you have done is not good. at his head.”
1 Samuel 26:17 Saul recognized David's voice and said, “Is this your voice, my son David?” And David said, “It is my voice, my lord, O king.”
1 Samuel 26:18 And he said, “Why does my lord pursue after his servant? For what have I done? What evil is on my hands?
1 Samuel 26:19 Now therefore let my lord the king hear the words of his servant. If it is the LORD who has stirred you up against me, may he accept an offering, but if it is men, may they be cursed before the LORD, the heritage of the LORD, saying, ‘Go, serve other gods.’
1 Samuel 26:20 Now therefore, let not my blood fall to the earth away from the presence of the LORD, for the king of Israel has come out to seek a single flea like one who hunts a partridge in the mountains.”
1 Samuel 26:21 Then Saul said, “I have sinned. Return, my son David, for I will no more do you harm, because my life was precious in your eyes this day. Behold, I have acted foolishly, and have made a great mistake.”
1 Samuel 26:22 And David answered and said, “Here is the spear, O king! Let one of the young men come over and take it.
1 Samuel 26:23  The LORD rewards every man for his righteousness and his faithfulness, for the LORD gave you into my hand today, and I would not put out my hand against the LORD's anointed.
1 Samuel 26:24 Behold, as your life was precious this day in my sight, so may my life be precious in the sight of the LORD, and may he deliver me out of all tribulation.”
1 Samuel 26:25 Then Saul said to David, “Blessed be you, my son David! You will do many things and will succeed in them.” So David went his way, and Saul returned to his place.
1 Samuel 27:1 Then David said in his heart, “Now I shall perish one day by the hand of Saul. There is nothing better for me than that I should escape to the land of the Philistines. Then Saul will despair of seeking me any longer within the borders of Israel, and I shall escape out of his hand.”
1 Samuel 27:2 So David arose and went over, he and to Achish the son of Maoch, king of Gath.
1 Samuel 27:3 And David lived with Achish at Gath, he and his men, every man with his household, and David with his two wives, Ahinoam of Jezreel, and Abigail of Carmel, Nabal's widow.
1 Samuel 27:4 And when it was told Saul that David had fled to Gath, he no longer sought him.
1 Samuel 27:5 Then David said to Achish, “If I have found favor in your eyes, let a place be given me in one of the country towns, that I may dwell there. For why should your servant dwell in the royal city with you?”
1 Samuel 27:6 So that day Achish gave him Ziklag. Therefore Ziklag has belonged to the kings of Judah to this day.
1 Samuel 27:7  And the number of the days that David lived in the country of the Philistines was a year and four months.
1 Samuel 27:8 Now David as far as Shur, to the land of Egypt.
1 Samuel 27:9 And David would strike the land and would leave neither man nor woman alive, but would take away the sheep, the oxen, the donkeys, the camels, and the garments, and come back to Achish.
1 Samuel 27:10 When Achish asked, “Where have you the Kenites.”
1 Samuel 27:11 And David would leave neither man nor woman alive to bring news to Gath, thinking, “lest they should tell about us and say, ‘So David has done.’” Such was his custom all the while he lived in the country of the Philistines.
1 Samuel 27:12 And Achish trusted David, thinking, “He has made himself an utter stench to his people Israel; therefore he shall always be my servant.”
1 Samuel 28:1 In those days the Philistines gathered their forces for war, to fight against Israel. And Achish said to David, “Understand that you and your men are to go out with me in the army.”
1 Samuel 28:2 David said to Achish, “Very well, you shall know what your servant can do.” And Achish said to David, “Very well, I will make you my bodyguard for life.”
1 Samuel 28:3 Now the mediums and the necromancers out of the land.
1 Samuel 28:4 The Philistines assembled and came and encamped at Gilboa.
1 Samuel 28:5 When Saul saw the army of the Philistines, he was afraid, and his heart trembled greatly.
1 Samuel 28:6 And when Saul inquired of the LORD, by Urim, or by prophets.
1 Samuel 28:7 Then Saul said to his servants, En-dor.”
1 Samuel 28:8 So Saul “Divine for me by a spirit and bring up for me whomever I shall name to you.”
1 Samuel 28:9 The woman said to him, “Surely you know what Saul has done, how he has cut off the mediums and the necromancers from the land. Why then are you laying a trap for my life to bring about my death?”
1 Samuel 28:10 But Saul swore to her by the LORD, “As the LORD lives, no punishment shall come upon you for this thing.”
1 Samuel 28:11 Then the woman said, “Whom shall I bring up for you?” He said, “Bring up Samuel for me.”
1 Samuel 28:12 When the woman saw Samuel, she cried out with a loud voice. And the woman said to Saul, “Why have you deceived me? You are Saul.”
1 Samuel 28:13 The king said to her, “Do not be afraid. What do you see?” And the woman said to Saul, “I see a god coming up out of the earth.”
1 Samuel 28:14 He said to her, “What is his appearance?” And she said, “An old man is coming up, and he is wrapped in a robe.” And Saul knew that it was Samuel, and he bowed with his face to the ground and paid homage.
1 Samuel 28:15 Then Samuel said to Saul, “Why have you disturbed me by bringing me up?” Saul answered, “I am in great distress, for the Philistines are warring against me, and answers me no more, either by prophets or by dreams. Therefore I have summoned you to tell me what I shall do.”
1 Samuel 28:16 And Samuel said, “Why then do you ask me, since the LORD has turned from you and become your enemy?
1 Samuel 28:17 The LORD has done to you as he spoke by me, for the LORD has torn the kingdom out of your hand and given it to your neighbor, David.
1 Samuel 28:18  Because you did not obey the voice of the LORD and did not carry out his fierce wrath against Amalek, therefore the LORD has done this thing to you this day.
1 Samuel 28:19 Moreover, the LORD will give Israel also with you into the hand of the Philistines, and tomorrow you and your sons shall be with me. The LORD will give the army of Israel also into the hand of the Philistines.”
1 Samuel 28:20 Then Saul fell at once full length on the ground, filled with fear because of the words of Samuel. And there was no strength in him, for he had eaten nothing all day and all night.
1 Samuel 28:21 And the woman came to Saul, and when she saw that he was terrified, she said to him, “Behold, your servant has obeyed you. I have taken my life in my hand and have listened to what you have said to me.
1 Samuel 28:22 Now therefore, you also obey your servant. Let me set a morsel of bread before you; and eat, that you may have strength when you go on your way.”
1 Samuel 28:23 He refused and said, “I will not eat.” But his servants, together with the woman, urged him, and he listened to their words. So he arose from the earth and sat on the bed.
1 Samuel 28:24 Now the woman had a fattened calf in the house, and she quickly killed it, and she took flour and kneaded it and baked unleavened bread of it,
1 Samuel 28:25 and she put it before Saul and his servants, and they ate. Then they rose and went away that night.
1 Samuel 29:1  Jezreel.
1 Samuel 29:2 As with Achish,
1 Samuel 29:3 the commanders of the Philistines said, “What are these Hebrews doing here?” And Achish said to the commanders of the Philistines, “Is this not David, the servant of Saul, king of Israel, who has been with me I have found no fault in him to this day.”
1 Samuel 29:4 But lest in the battle he become an adversary to us. For how could this fellow reconcile himself to his lord? Would it not be with the heads of the men here?
1 Samuel 29:5 Is not this David, of whom they sing to one another in dances, ‘Saul has struck down his thousands, and David his ten thousands’?”
1 Samuel 29:6 Then Achish called David and said to him, you should march out and in with me in the campaign. For I have found nothing wrong in you from the day of your coming to me to this day. Nevertheless, the lords do not approve of you.
1 Samuel 29:7 So go back now; and go peaceably, that you may not displease the lords of the Philistines.”
1 Samuel 29:8 And David said to Achish, “But what have I done? What have you found in your servant from the day I entered your service until now, that I may not go and fight against the enemies of my lord the king?”
1 Samuel 29:9 And Achish answered David and said, “I know that you are as blameless in my sight the commanders of the Philistines have said, ‘He shall not go up with us to the battle.’
1 Samuel 29:10 Now then rise early in the morning with the servants of your lord who came with you, and start early in the morning, and depart as soon as you have light.”
1 Samuel 29:11 So David set out with his men early in the morning to return to the land of the Philistines. But the Philistines went up to Jezreel.
1 Samuel 30:1 Now when David and his men came to made a raid against the Negeb and against Ziklag. They had overcome Ziklag and burned it with fire
1 Samuel 30:2 and taken captive the women and all  who were in it, both small and great. They killed no one, but carried them off and went their way.
1 Samuel 30:3 And when David and his men came to the city, they found it burned with fire, and their wives and sons and daughters taken captive.
1 Samuel 30:4 Then David and the people who were with him raised their voices and wept until they had no more strength to weep.
1 Samuel 30:5 David's two wives also had been taken captive, Ahinoam of Jezreel and Abigail the widow of Nabal of Carmel.
1 Samuel 30:6 And David was greatly distressed, for the people spoke  each for his sons and daughters. But David strengthened himself in the LORD his God.
1 Samuel 30:7  And David said to Abiathar the priest, the son of Ahimelech, “Bring me the ephod.” So Abiathar brought the ephod to David.
1 Samuel 30:8  and shall surely rescue.”
1 Samuel 30:9 So David set out, and the six hundred men who were with him, and they came to the brook Besor, where those who were left behind stayed.
1 Samuel 30:10 But David pursued, he and four hundred men. Two hundred stayed behind, who were too exhausted to cross the brook Besor.
1 Samuel 30:11 They found an Egyptian in the open country and brought him to David. And they gave him bread and he ate. They gave him water to drink,
1 Samuel 30:12 and they gave him a piece of a cake of figs and two clusters of raisins. And when he had eaten, his spirit revived, for he had not eaten bread or drunk water for three days and three nights.
1 Samuel 30:13 And David said to him, “To whom do you belong? And where are you from?” He said, “I am a young man of Egypt, servant to an Amalekite, and my master left me behind because I fell sick three days ago.
1 Samuel 30:14  the Cherethites and against that which belongs to Judah and against the Negeb of Caleb, and we burned Ziklag with fire.”
1 Samuel 30:15 And David said to him, “Will you take me down to this band?” And he said, “Swear to me by God that you will not kill me or deliver me into the hands of my master, and I will take you down to this band.”
1 Samuel 30:16 And when he had taken him down, behold, they were spread abroad over all the land, eating and drinking and dancing, because of all the great spoil they had taken from the land of the Philistines and from the land of Judah.
1 Samuel 30:17 And David struck them down from twilight until the evening of the next day, and not a man of them escaped, except four hundred young men, who mounted camels and fled.
1 Samuel 30:18  David recovered all that the Amalekites had taken, and David rescued his two wives.
1 Samuel 30:19 Nothing was missing, whether small or great, sons or daughters, spoil or anything that had been taken. David brought back all.
1 Samuel 30:20 David also captured all the flocks and herds, and the people drove the livestock before him,  and said, “This is David's spoil.”
1 Samuel 30:21 Then David came to at the brook Besor. And they went out to meet David and to meet the people who were with him. And when David came near to the people he greeted them.
1 Samuel 30:22 Then all the wicked and worthless fellows among the men who had gone with David said, “Because they did not go with us, we will not give them any of the spoil that we have recovered, except that each man may lead away his wife and children, and depart.”
1 Samuel 30:23 But David said, “You shall not do so, my brothers, with what the LORD has given us. He has preserved us and given into our hand the band that came against us.
1 Samuel 30:24 Who would listen to you in this matter? For as his share is who goes down into the battle, so shall his share be who stays by the baggage. They shall share alike.”
1 Samuel 30:25 And he made it a statute and a rule for Israel from that day forward to this day.
1 Samuel 30:26 When David came to Ziklag, he sent part of the spoil to his friends, the elders of Judah, saying, “Here is a present for you from the spoil of the enemies of the LORD.”
1 Samuel 30:27 It was for those in Jattir,
1 Samuel 30:28 in Eshtemoa,
1 Samuel 30:29 in Racal, in the cities of the Kenites,
1 Samuel 30:30 in Hormah, in Bor-ashan, in Athach,
1 Samuel 30:31 in Hebron, for all the places where David and his men had roamed.
1 Samuel 31:1  on Mount Gilboa.
1 Samuel 31:2 And the Philistines overtook Saul and his sons, and the Philistines struck down Abinadab and Malchi-shua, the sons of Saul.
1 Samuel 31:3  The battle pressed hard against Saul, and the archers found him, and he was badly wounded by the archers.
1 Samuel 31:4  and fell upon it.
1 Samuel 31:5 And when his armor-bearer saw that Saul was dead, he also fell upon his sword and died with him.
1 Samuel 31:6 Thus Saul died, and his three sons, and his armor-bearer, and all his men, on the same day together.
1 Samuel 31:7 And when the men of Israel who were on the other side of the valley and those beyond the Jordan saw that the men of Israel had fled and that Saul and his sons were dead, they abandoned their cities and fled. And the Philistines came and lived in them.
1 Samuel 31:8 The next day, when the Philistines came to strip the slain, they found Saul and his three sons fallen on Mount Gilboa.
1 Samuel 31:9 So they cut off his head and stripped off his armor and sent messengers throughout the land of the Philistines, to the house of their idols and to the people.
1 Samuel 31:10  Beth-shan.
1 Samuel 31:11  But when the inhabitants of Jabesh-gilead heard what the Philistines had done to Saul,
1 Samuel 31:12  and burned them there.
1 Samuel 31:13 And they took their bones fasted seven days.
2 Samuel 1:1 After the death of Saul, when David had returned from striking down the Amalekites, David remained two days in Ziklag.
2 Samuel 1:2 And on the third day, behold, he fell to the ground and paid homage.
2 Samuel 1:3 David said to him, “Where do you come from?” And he said to him, “I have escaped from the camp of Israel.”
2 Samuel 1:4 And David said to him, “How did it go? Tell me.” And he answered, “The people fled from the battle, and also many of the people have fallen and are dead, and Saul and his son Jonathan are also dead.”
2 Samuel 1:5 Then David said to the young man who told him, “How do you know that Saul and his son Jonathan are dead?”
2 Samuel 1:6 And the young man who told him said, “By chance I happened to be on Mount Gilboa, and there was Saul leaning on his spear, and behold, the chariots and the horsemen were close upon him.
2 Samuel 1:7 And when he looked behind him, he saw me, and called to me. And I answered, ‘Here I am.’
2 Samuel 1:8 And he said to me, ‘Who are you?’ I answered him, ‘I am an Amalekite.’
2 Samuel 1:9 And he said to me, ‘Stand beside me and kill me, for anguish has seized me, and yet my life still lingers.’
2 Samuel 1:10 So I stood beside him and killed him, because I was sure that he could not live after he had fallen. And I took the crown that was on his head and the armlet that was on his arm, and I have brought them here to my lord.”
2 Samuel 1:11 Then David took hold of his clothes and tore them, and so did all the men who were with him.
2 Samuel 1:12 And they mourned and wept and fasted until evening for Saul and for Jonathan his son and for the people of the LORD and for the house of Israel, because they had fallen by the sword.
2 Samuel 1:13 And David said to the young man who told him, “Where do you come from?” And he answered, “I am the son of a sojourner, an Amalekite.”
2 Samuel 1:14 David said to him, “How is it you were not the LORD's anointed?”
2 Samuel 1:15 Then David called one of the young men and said, “Go, execute him.” And he struck him down so that he died.
2 Samuel 1:16 And David said to him, the LORD's anointed.’”
2 Samuel 1:17 And David lamented with this lamentation over Saul and Jonathan his son,
2 Samuel 1:18 and he said it  He said:
2 Samuel 1:19 “Your glory, O Israel, is slain on your high places! How the mighty have fallen!
2 Samuel 1:20  the uncircumcised exult.
2 Samuel 1:21  anointed with oil.
2 Samuel 1:22 “From the blood of the slain, from the fat of the mighty, the bow of Jonathan turned not back, and the sword of Saul returned not empty.
2 Samuel 1:23 “Saul and Jonathan, beloved and lovely! In life and in death they were not divided; they were stronger than lions.
2 Samuel 1:24 “You daughters of Israel, weep over Saul, who clothed you luxuriously in scarlet, who put ornaments of gold on your apparel.
2 Samuel 1:25  “How the mighty have fallen in the midst of the battle!  “Jonathan lies slain on your high places.
2 Samuel 1:26 I am distressed for you, my brother Jonathan; very pleasant have you been to me; your love to me was extraordinary, surpassing the love of women.
2 Samuel 1:27  “How the mighty have fallen, and the weapons of war perished!”
2 Samuel 2:1 After this David Hebron.”
2 Samuel 2:2 So David went up there, and his two wives also, Ahinoam of Jezreel and Abigail the widow of Nabal of Carmel.
2 Samuel 2:3 And David brought up his men who were with him, everyone with his household, and they lived in the towns of Hebron.
2 Samuel 2:4 And the men of Judah came, and there they anointed David “It was the men of Jabesh-gilead who buried Saul,”
2 Samuel 2:5 David sent messengers to the men of Jabesh-gilead and said to them, “May you be blessed by the LORD, because you showed this loyalty to Saul your lord and buried him.
2 Samuel 2:6 Now may the LORD show steadfast love and faithfulness to you. And I will do good to you because you have done this thing.
2 Samuel 2:7 Now therefore let your hands be strong, and be valiant, for Saul your lord is dead, and the house of Judah has anointed me king over them.”
2 Samuel 2:8 But Mahanaim,
2 Samuel 2:9 and he made him king over Gilead and the Ashurites and Jezreel and Ephraim and Benjamin and all Israel.
2 Samuel 2:10 Ish-bosheth, Saul's son, was forty years old when he began to reign over Israel, and he reigned two years. But the house of Judah followed David.
2 Samuel 2:11  the house of Judah was seven years and six months.
2 Samuel 2:12 Abner the son of Ner, and the servants of Ish-bosheth the son of Saul, went out from Mahanaim to Gibeon.
2 Samuel 2:13 And Joab the son of Zeruiah and the servants of David went out and met them at the pool of Gibeon. And they sat down, the one on the one side of the pool, and the other on the other side of the pool.
2 Samuel 2:14 And Abner said to Joab, “Let the young men arise and compete before us.” And Joab said, “Let them arise.”
2 Samuel 2:15 Then they arose and passed over by number, twelve for Benjamin and Ish-bosheth the son of Saul, and twelve of the servants of David.
2 Samuel 2:16 And each caught his opponent by the head and thrust his sword in his opponent's side, so they fell down together. Therefore that place was called Helkath-hazzurim,  which is at Gibeon.
2 Samuel 2:17 And the battle was very fierce that day. And Abner and the men of Israel were beaten before the servants of David.
2 Samuel 2:18 And the as swift of foot as a wild gazelle.
2 Samuel 2:19 And Asahel pursued Abner, and as he went, he turned neither to the right hand nor to the left from following Abner.
2 Samuel 2:20 Then Abner looked behind him and said, “Is it you, Asahel?” And he answered, “It is I.”
2 Samuel 2:21 Abner said to him, “Turn aside to your right hand or to your left, and seize one of the young men and take his spoil.” But Asahel would not turn aside from following him.
2 Samuel 2:22 And Abner said again to Asahel, “Turn aside from following me. Why should I strike you to the ground? How then could I lift up my face to your brother Joab?”
2 Samuel 2:23 But he refused to turn aside. Therefore Abner struck him in the stomach with the butt of his spear, so that the spear came out at his back. And he fell there and died where he was. And all who came to the place where Asahel had fallen and died, stood still.
2 Samuel 2:24 But Joab and Abishai pursued Abner. And as the sun was going down they came to the hill of Ammah, which lies before Giah on the way to the wilderness of Gibeon.
2 Samuel 2:25 And the people of Benjamin gathered themselves together behind Abner and became one group and took their stand on the top of a hill.
2 Samuel 2:26 Then Abner called to Joab, “Shall the sword devour forever? Do you not know that the end will be bitter? How long will it be before you tell your people to turn from the pursuit of their brothers?”
2 Samuel 2:27 And Joab said, “As God lives, if you had not spoken, surely the men would not have given up the pursuit of their brothers until the morning.”
2 Samuel 2:28 So Joab blew the trumpet, and all the men stopped and pursued Israel no more, nor did they fight anymore.
2 Samuel 2:29 And Abner and his men went all that night through Mahanaim.
2 Samuel 2:30 Joab returned from the pursuit of Abner. And when he had gathered all the people together, there were missing from David's servants nineteen men besides Asahel.
2 Samuel 2:31 But the servants of David had struck down of Benjamin 360 of Abner's men.
2 Samuel 2:32 And they took up Asahel and buried him in the tomb of his father, which was at Bethlehem. And Joab and his men marched all night, and the day broke upon them at Hebron.
2 Samuel 3:1 There was a long war between the house of Saul and the house of David. And David grew stronger and stronger, while the house of Saul became weaker and weaker.
2 Samuel 3:2  Ahinoam of Jezreel;
2 Samuel 3:3 and his second, Chileab, of Geshur;
2 Samuel 3:4 and the fourth, Adonijah the son of Haggith; and the fifth, Shephatiah the son of Abital;
2 Samuel 3:5 and the sixth, Ithream, of Eglah, David's wife. These were born to David in Hebron.
2 Samuel 3:6 While there was war between the house of Saul and the house of David, Abner was making himself strong in the house of Saul.
2 Samuel 3:7 Now Saul had a concubine whose name was “Why have you gone in to my father's concubine?”
2 Samuel 3:8 Then Abner was very angry over the words of Ish-bosheth and said, “Am I a dog's head of Judah? To this day I keep showing steadfast love to the house of Saul your father, to his brothers, and to his friends, and have not given you into the hand of David. And yet you charge me today with a fault concerning a woman.
2 Samuel 3:9  what the LORD has sworn to him,
2 Samuel 3:10 to transfer the kingdom from the house of Saul and set up the throne of David over Israel and over Judah, from Dan to Beersheba.”
2 Samuel 3:11 And Ish-bosheth could not answer Abner another word, because he feared him.
2 Samuel 3:12 And Abner sent messengers to David on his behalf,  saying, “To whom does the land belong? Make your covenant with me, and behold, my hand shall be with you to bring over all Israel to you.”
2 Samuel 3:13 And he said, “Good; I will make a covenant with you. But one thing I require of you; that is, Michal, Saul's daughter, when you come to see my face.”
2 Samuel 3:14 Then David sent messengers to Ish-bosheth, Saul's son, saying, “Give me my wife Michal, for whom I paid the bridal price of a hundred foreskins of the Philistines.”
2 Samuel 3:15 And Ish-bosheth sent and took her from her husband Paltiel the son of Laish.
2 Samuel 3:16 But her husband went with her, weeping after her all the way to Bahurim. Then Abner said to him, “Go, return.” And he returned.
2 Samuel 3:17 And Abner conferred with the elders of Israel, saying, “For some time past you have been seeking David as king over you.
2 Samuel 3:18 Now then bring it about, for the LORD has promised David, saying, ‘By the hand of my servant David I will save my people Israel from the hand of the Philistines, and from the hand of all their enemies.’”
2 Samuel 3:19 Abner also spoke to Benjamin. And then Abner went to tell David at Hebron all that Israel and the whole house of Benjamin thought good to do.
2 Samuel 3:20 When Abner came with twenty men to David at Hebron, David made a feast for Abner and the men who were with him.
2 Samuel 3:21 And Abner said to David, “I will arise and go and reign over all that your heart desires.” So David sent Abner away, and he went in peace.
2 Samuel 3:22 Just then the servants of David arrived with Joab from a raid, bringing much spoil with them. But Abner was not with David at Hebron, for he had sent him away, and he had gone in peace.
2 Samuel 3:23 When Joab and all the army that was with him came, it was told Joab, “Abner the son of Ner came to the king, and he has let him go, and he has gone in peace.”
2 Samuel 3:24 Then Joab went to the king and said, “What have you done? Behold, Abner came to you. Why is it that you have sent him away, so that he is gone?
2 Samuel 3:25 You know that Abner the son of Ner came to deceive you and to know your going out and your coming in, and to know all that you are doing.”
2 Samuel 3:26 When Joab came out from David's presence, he sent messengers after Abner, and they brought him back from the cistern of Sirah. But David did not know about it.
2 Samuel 3:27 And when Abner returned to Hebron, Joab took him aside into the midst of the gate to speak with him privately, in the stomach, so that he died, for the blood of Asahel his brother.
2 Samuel 3:28 Afterward, when David heard of it, he said, “I and my kingdom are forever guiltless before the LORD for the blood of Abner the son of Ner.
2 Samuel 3:29  leprous or who holds a spindle or who falls by the sword or who lacks bread!”
2 Samuel 3:30 So Joab and Abishai his brother killed Abner, because he had put their brother Asahel to death in the battle at Gibeon.
2 Samuel 3:31 Then David said to Joab and to all the people who were with him, put on sackcloth and mourn before Abner.” And King David followed the bier.
2 Samuel 3:32 They buried Abner at Hebron. And the king lifted up his voice and wept at the grave of Abner, and all the people wept.
2 Samuel 3:33 And the king as a fool dies?
2 Samuel 3:34 Your hands were not bound; your feet were not fettered; as one falls before the wicked you have fallen.”  And all the people wept again over him.
2 Samuel 3:35 Then all the people came till the sun goes down!”
2 Samuel 3:36 And all the people took notice of it, and it pleased them, as everything that the king did pleased all the people.
2 Samuel 3:37 So all the people and all Israel understood that day that it had not been the king's will to put to death Abner the son of Ner.
2 Samuel 3:38 And the king said to his servants, “Do you not know that a prince and a great man has fallen this day in Israel?
2 Samuel 3:39 And I was gentle today, though anointed king. The LORD repay the evildoer according to his wickedness!”
2 Samuel 4:1 When Ish-bosheth, Saul's son, heard that Abner had died at Hebron, his courage failed, and all Israel was dismayed.
2 Samuel 4:2 Now Saul's son had two men who were captains of raiding bands; the name of the one was Baanah, and the name of the other Rechab, sons of Rimmon a man of Benjamin from Beeroth (for Beeroth also is counted part of Benjamin;
2 Samuel 4:3  to Gittaim and have been sojourners there to this day).
2 Samuel 4:4  came from Jezreel, and his nurse took him up and fled, and as she fled in her haste, he fell and became lame. And his name was Mephibosheth.
2 Samuel 4:5 Now the sons of Rimmon the Beerothite, Rechab and Baanah, set out, and about the heat of the day they came to the house of Ish-bosheth as he was taking his noonday rest.
2 Samuel 4:6 And they came into the midst of the house as if to get wheat, and they stabbed him
2 Samuel 4:7 When they came into the house, as he lay on his bed in his bedroom, they struck him and put him to death and beheaded him. They took his head and went by the way of the Arabah all night,
2 Samuel 4:8 and brought the head of Ish-bosheth to David at Hebron. And they said to the king, “Here is the head of Ish-bosheth, the son of Saul, your enemy, who sought your life. The LORD has avenged my lord the king this day on Saul and on his offspring.”
2 Samuel 4:9 But David answered Rechab and Baanah his brother, the sons of Rimmon the Beerothite, who has redeemed my life out of every adversity,
2 Samuel 4:10  I seized him and killed him at Ziklag, which was the reward I gave him for his news.
2 Samuel 4:11 How much more, when wicked men have killed a righteous man in his own house on his bed, shall I not now require his blood at your hand and destroy you from the earth?”
2 Samuel 4:12 And David commanded his young men, and they killed them and cut off their hands and feet and hanged them beside the pool at Hebron. But they took the head of Ish-bosheth and buried it in the tomb of Abner at Hebron.
2 Samuel 5:1 Then all the tribes of Israel we are your bone and flesh.
2 Samuel 5:2 In times past, when Saul was king over us,  over Israel.’”
2 Samuel 5:3 So all the elders of Israel came to the king at Hebron, before the LORD, and they anointed David king over Israel.
2 Samuel 5:4 David was thirty years old when he began to reign, and he reigned forty years.
2 Samuel 5:5
2 Samuel 5:6  against the Jebusites, the inhabitants of the land, who said to David, “You will not come in here, but the blind and the lame will ward you off” — thinking, “David cannot come in here.”
2 Samuel 5:7 Nevertheless, David took the stronghold of Zion, that is, the city of David.
2 Samuel 5:8 And David said on that day, “Whoever would strike the Jebusites, let him get up the water shaft to attack ‘the lame and the blind,’ who are hated by David's soul.” Therefore it is said, “The blind and the lame shall not come into the house.”
2 Samuel 5:9 And David lived in the stronghold and called it Millo inward.
2 Samuel 5:10 And David became greater and greater, for the LORD, the God of hosts, was with him.
2 Samuel 5:11  Hiram king of Tyre sent messengers to David, and cedar trees, also carpenters and masons who built David a house.
2 Samuel 5:12 And David knew that the LORD had established him king over Israel, and that he had exalted his kingdom for the sake of his people Israel.
2 Samuel 5:13 And David took more concubines and wives from Jerusalem, after he came from Hebron, and more sons and daughters were born to David.
2 Samuel 5:14  And these are the names of those who were born to him in Jerusalem: Shammua, Shobab, Nathan, Solomon,
2 Samuel 5:15 Ibhar, Elishua, Nepheg, Japhia,
2 Samuel 5:16 Elishama, Eliada, and Eliphelet.
2 Samuel 5:17 When the Philistines heard that David had been anointed king over Israel, all the Philistines went up to search for David. But David heard of it and went down to the stronghold.
2 Samuel 5:18 Now the Philistines had come and spread out in the Valley of Rephaim.
2 Samuel 5:19 And David inquired of the LORD, “Shall I go up against the Philistines? Will you give them into my hand?” And the LORD said to David, “Go up, for I will certainly give the Philistines into your hand.”
2 Samuel 5:20 And David came to Baal-perazim, and David defeated them there. And he said, “The LORD has broken through my enemies before me like a breaking flood.”
2 Samuel 5:21 And the Philistines left their idols there, and David and his men carried them away.
2 Samuel 5:22 And the Philistines came up yet again and spread out in the Valley of Rephaim.
2 Samuel 5:23  And when David inquired of the LORD, he said, “You shall not go up; go around to their rear, and come against them opposite the balsam trees.
2 Samuel 5:24 And for then the LORD has gone out before you to strike down the army of the Philistines.”
2 Samuel 5:25 And David did as the LORD commanded him, and struck down the Philistines from Geba to Gezer.
2 Samuel 6:1  David again gathered all the chosen men of Israel, thirty thousand.
2 Samuel 6:2 And David arose and went with all the people who were with him from who sits enthroned on the cherubim.
2 Samuel 6:3 And they carried the ark of God  the sons of Abinadab, were driving the new cart,
2 Samuel 6:4 with the ark of God,  and Ahio went before the ark.
2 Samuel 6:5 And David and all the house of Israel were celebrating before the LORD, with  and lyres and harps and tambourines and castanets and cymbals.
2 Samuel 6:6 And when they came to the threshing floor of put out his hand to the ark of God and took hold of it, for the oxen stumbled.
2 Samuel 6:7 And the anger of the LORD was kindled against Uzzah, and God struck him down there because of his error, and he died there beside the ark of God.
2 Samuel 6:8 And David was angry because the LORD had broken out against Uzzah. And that place is called Perez-uzzah  to this day.
2 Samuel 6:9 And David was afraid of the LORD that day, and he said, “How can the ark of the LORD come to me?”
2 Samuel 6:10 So David was not willing to take the ark of the LORD into the city of David. But David took it aside to the house of Obed-edom the Gittite.
2 Samuel 6:11 And the ark of the LORD remained in the house of Obed-edom the Gittite three months, and the LORD blessed Obed-edom and all his household.
2 Samuel 6:12 And it was told King David, “The LORD has blessed the household of Obed-edom and all that belongs to him, because of the ark of God.” to the city of David with rejoicing.
2 Samuel 6:13 And when he sacrificed an ox and a fattened animal.
2 Samuel 6:14 And David wearing a linen ephod.
2 Samuel 6:15 So David and all the house of Israel brought up the ark of the LORD with shouting and with the sound of the horn.
2 Samuel 6:16 As the ark of the LORD came into the city of David, Michal the daughter of Saul looked out of the window and saw King David leaping and dancing before the LORD, and she despised him in her heart.
2 Samuel 6:17 And they brought in the ark of the LORD and set it And David offered burnt offerings and peace offerings before the LORD.
2 Samuel 6:18 And when David had finished offering the burnt offerings and the peace offerings, he blessed the people in the name of the LORD of hosts
2 Samuel 6:19 and distributed among all the people, the whole multitude of Israel, both men and women, a cake of bread, a portion of meat, Then all the people departed, each to his house.
2 Samuel 6:20 And David returned to bless his household. But Michal the daughter of Saul came out to meet David and said, “How the king of Israel honored himself today, vulgar fellows shamelessly uncovers himself!”
2 Samuel 6:21 And David said to Michal, “It was before the LORD,  over Israel, the people of the LORD — and I will celebrate before the LORD.
2 Samuel 6:22 I will make myself yet more contemptible than this, and I will be abased in your  eyes. But by the female servants of whom you have spoken, by them I shall be held in honor.”
2 Samuel 6:23 And Michal the daughter of Saul had no child to the day of her death.
2 Samuel 7:1  had given him rest from all his surrounding enemies,
2 Samuel 7:2 the king said to in a tent.”
2 Samuel 7:3 And Nathan said to the king, “Go, do all that is in your heart, for the LORD is with you.”
2 Samuel 7:4 But that same night the word of the LORD came to Nathan,
2 Samuel 7:5 “Go and tell my servant David, ‘Thus says the LORD: Would you build me a house to dwell in?
2 Samuel 7:6 I have not lived in a house in a tent for my dwelling.
2 Samuel 7:7 In all places where to shepherd my people Israel, saying, “Why have you not built me a house of cedar?”’
2 Samuel 7:8 Now, therefore, thus you shall say to my servant David, ‘Thus says the LORD of hosts,  over my people Israel.
2 Samuel 7:9  And I have been with you wherever you went and have cut off all your enemies from before you. And I will make for you a great name, like the name of the great ones of the earth.
2 Samuel 7:10 And I will appoint a place for my people Israel And violent men shall afflict them no more, as formerly,
2 Samuel 7:11  the LORD will make you a house.
2 Samuel 7:12  I will raise up your offspring after you, who shall come from your body, and I will establish his kingdom.
2 Samuel 7:13  I will establish the throne of his kingdom forever.
2 Samuel 7:14  I will discipline him with the rod of men, with the stripes of the sons of men,
2 Samuel 7:15  as I took it from Saul, whom I put away from before you.
2 Samuel 7:16  Your throne shall be established forever.’”
2 Samuel 7:17 In accordance with all these words, and in accordance with all this vision, Nathan spoke to David.
2 Samuel 7:18 Then King David went in and sat before the LORD and said, “Who am I, O Lord GOD, and what is my house, that you have brought me thus far?
2 Samuel 7:19 And yet this was a small thing in your eyes, O Lord GOD. You have spoken also of your servant's house for a great while to come, and this is instruction for mankind, O Lord GOD!
2 Samuel 7:20 And what more can David say to you? For you know your servant, O Lord GOD!
2 Samuel 7:21 Because of your promise, and according to your own heart, you have brought about all this greatness, to make your servant know it.
2 Samuel 7:22  For there is none like you, and there is no God besides you, according to all that we have heard with our ears.
2 Samuel 7:23  you redeemed for yourself from Egypt, a nation and its gods?
2 Samuel 7:24  And you established for yourself your people Israel to be your people forever. And you, O LORD, became their God.
2 Samuel 7:25 And now, O LORD God, confirm forever the word that you have spoken concerning your servant and concerning his house, and do as you have spoken.
2 Samuel 7:26 And your name will be magnified forever, saying, ‘The LORD of hosts is God over Israel,’ and the house of your servant David will be established before you.
2 Samuel 7:27 For you, O LORD of hosts, the God of Israel, have made this revelation to your servant, saying, ‘I will build you a house.’ Therefore your servant has found courage to pray this prayer to you.
2 Samuel 7:28 And now, O Lord GOD, you are God, and your words are true, and you have promised this good thing to your servant.
2 Samuel 7:29 Now therefore may it please you to bless the house of your servant, so that it may continue forever before you. For you, O Lord GOD, have spoken, and with your blessing shall the house of your servant be blessed forever.”
2 Samuel 8:1  Metheg-ammah out of the hand of the Philistines.
2 Samuel 8:2  brought tribute.
2 Samuel 8:3 David also defeated Zobah, as he went to restore his power at the river Euphrates.
2 Samuel 8:4  hamstrung all the chariot horses but left enough for 100 chariots.
2 Samuel 8:5  Zobah, David struck down 22,000 men of the Syrians.
2 Samuel 8:6 Then David put garrisons in Aram of Damascus, and the Syrians And the LORD gave victory to David wherever he went.
2 Samuel 8:7 And David took the shields of gold that were carried by the servants of Hadadezer and brought them to Jerusalem.
2 Samuel 8:8 And from Betah and from Berothai, cities of Hadadezer, King David took very much bronze.
2 Samuel 8:9 When Toi king of Hamath heard that David had defeated the whole army of Hadadezer,
2 Samuel 8:10 Toi sent his son Joram to King David, to ask about his health and to bless him because he had fought against Hadadezer and defeated him, for Hadadezer had often been at war with Toi. And Joram brought with him articles of silver, of gold, and of bronze.
2 Samuel 8:11  These also King David dedicated to the LORD, together with the silver and gold that he dedicated from all the nations he subdued,
2 Samuel 8:12 from Edom, Zobah.
2 Samuel 8:13 And David made a name for himself when he returned from striking down 18,000 Edomites in the Valley of Salt.
2 Samuel 8:14 Then he put garrisons in Edom; throughout all Edom he put garrisons, and all the Edomites became David's servants. And the LORD gave victory to David wherever he went.
2 Samuel 8:15 So David reigned over all Israel. And David administered justice and equity to all his people.
2 Samuel 8:16  Jehoshaphat the son of Ahilud was recorder,
2 Samuel 8:17 and Seraiah was secretary,
2 Samuel 8:18 and Cherethites and the Pelethites, and David's sons were priests.
2 Samuel 9:1 And David said, “Is there still anyone left of the house of Saul, that I may show him kindness for Jonathan's sake?”
2 Samuel 9:2 Now there was a servant of the house of Saul whose name was Ziba, and they called him to David. And the king said to him, “Are you Ziba?” And he said, “I am your servant.”
2 Samuel 9:3 And the king said, “Is there not still someone of the house of Saul, that I may show Jonathan; he is crippled in his feet.”
2 Samuel 9:4 The king said to him, “Where is he?” And Ziba said to the king, “He is in the house of Machir the son of Ammiel, at Lo-debar.”
2 Samuel 9:5 Then King David sent and brought him from the house of Machir the son of Ammiel, at Lo-debar.
2 Samuel 9:6 And Mephibosheth the son of Jonathan, son of Saul, came to David and fell on his face and paid homage. And David said, “Mephibosheth!” And he answered, “Behold, I am your servant.”
2 Samuel 9:7 And David said to him, “Do not fear, you shall eat at my table always.”
2 Samuel 9:8 And he paid homage and said, “What is your servant, that you should show regard for a dead dog such as I?”
2 Samuel 9:9 Then the king called Ziba, Saul's servant, and said to him, “All that belonged to Saul and to all his house I have given to your master's grandson.
2 Samuel 9:10 And you and your sons and your servants shall till the land for him and shall bring in the produce, that your master's grandson may have bread to eat. But Mephibosheth your master's grandson fifteen sons and twenty servants.
2 Samuel 9:11 Then Ziba said to the king, “According to all that my lord the king commands his servant, so will your servant do.” So Mephibosheth  table, like one of the king's sons.
2 Samuel 9:12 And Mephibosheth had a young son, whose name was Mica. And all who lived in Ziba's house became Mephibosheth's servants.
2 Samuel 9:13 So Mephibosheth lived in Jerusalem, for he was lame in both his feet.
2 Samuel 10:1  After this the king of the Ammonites died, and Hanun his son reigned in his place.
2 Samuel 10:2 And David said, “I will deal loyally Nahash, as his father dealt loyally with me.” So David sent by his servants to console him concerning his father. And David's servants came into the land of the Ammonites.
2 Samuel 10:3 But the princes of the Ammonites said to Hanun their lord, “Do you think, because David has sent comforters to you, that he is honoring your father? Has not David sent his servants to you to search the city and to spy it out and to overthrow it?”
2 Samuel 10:4 So Hanun took David's servants and shaved off half the beard of each and cut off their garments in the middle, at their hips, and sent them away.
2 Samuel 10:5 When it was told David, he sent to meet them, for the men were greatly ashamed. And the king said, “Remain at Jericho until your beards have grown and then return.”
2 Samuel 10:6 When the Ammonites saw that they had become a stench to David, the Ammonites sent and hired the Syrians of Tob, 12,000 men.
2 Samuel 10:7 And when David heard of it, he sent Joab and all the host of the mighty men.
2 Samuel 10:8 And the Ammonites came out and drew up in battle array at the entrance of the gate, and the men of Tob and Maacah were by themselves in the open country.
2 Samuel 10:9 When Joab saw that the battle was set against him both in front and in the rear, he chose some of the best men of Israel and arrayed them against the Syrians.
2 Samuel 10:10 The rest of his men he put in the charge of Abishai his brother, and he arrayed them against the Ammonites.
2 Samuel 10:11 And he said, “If the Syrians are too strong for me, then you shall help me, but if the Ammonites are too strong for you, then I will come and help you.
2 Samuel 10:12  may the LORD do what seems good to him.”
2 Samuel 10:13 So Joab and the people who were with him drew near to battle against the Syrians, and they fled before him.
2 Samuel 10:14 And when the Ammonites saw that the Syrians fled, they likewise fled before Abishai and entered the city. Then Joab returned from fighting against the Ammonites and came to Jerusalem.
2 Samuel 10:15 But when the Syrians saw that they had been defeated by Israel, they gathered themselves together.
2 Samuel 10:16 And Hadadezer sent and brought out the Syrians who were beyond Shobach the commander of the army of Hadadezer at their head.
2 Samuel 10:17 And when it was told David, he gathered all Israel together and crossed the Jordan and came to Helam. The Syrians arrayed themselves against David and fought with him.
2 Samuel 10:18 And the Syrians fled before Israel, and David killed of the Syrians the men of 700 chariots, and 40,000 horsemen, and wounded Shobach the commander of their army, so that he died there.
2 Samuel 10:19 And when all the kings who were servants of Hadadezer saw that they had been defeated by Israel, they made peace with Israel and became subject to them. So the Syrians were afraid to save the Ammonites anymore.
2 Samuel 11:1  Rabbah. But David remained at Jerusalem.
2 Samuel 11:2 It happened, late one afternoon, when David arose from his couch and was walking on the roof of the king's house, that he saw from the roof a woman bathing; and the woman was very beautiful.
2 Samuel 11:3 And David sent and inquired about the woman. And one said, “Is not this Uriah the Hittite?”
2 Samuel 11:4 So David sent messengers and took her, and she came to him, and he lay with her. (Now she had been purifying herself from her uncleanness.) Then she returned to her house.
2 Samuel 11:5 And the woman conceived, and she sent and told David, “I am pregnant.”
2 Samuel 11:6 So David sent word to Joab, “Send me Uriah the Hittite.” And Joab sent Uriah to David.
2 Samuel 11:7 When Uriah came to him, David asked how Joab was doing and how the people were doing and how the war was going.
2 Samuel 11:8 Then David said to Uriah, “Go down to your house and wash your feet.” And Uriah went out of the king's house, and there followed him a present from the king.
2 Samuel 11:9 But Uriah slept at the door of the king's house with all the servants of his lord, and did not go down to his house.
2 Samuel 11:10 When they told David, “Uriah did not go down to his house,” David said to Uriah, “Have you not come from a journey? Why did you not go down to your house?”
2 Samuel 11:11 Uriah said to David, as your soul lives, I will not do this thing.”
2 Samuel 11:12 Then David said to Uriah, “Remain here today also, and tomorrow I will send you back.” So Uriah remained in Jerusalem that day and the next.
2 Samuel 11:13 And David invited him, and he ate in his presence and drank, the servants of his lord, but he did not go down to his house.
2 Samuel 11:14 In the morning David wrote a letter to Joab and sent it by the hand of Uriah.
2 Samuel 11:15 In the letter he wrote, “Set Uriah in the forefront of the hardest fighting, and then draw back from him, that he may be struck down, and die.”
2 Samuel 11:16 And as Joab was besieging the city, he assigned Uriah to the place where he knew there were valiant men.
2 Samuel 11:17 And the men of the city came out and fought with Joab, and some of the servants of David among the people fell. Uriah the Hittite also died.
2 Samuel 11:18 Then Joab sent and told David all the news about the fighting.
2 Samuel 11:19 And he instructed the messenger, “When you have finished telling all the news about the fighting to the king,
2 Samuel 11:20 then, if the king's anger rises, and if he says to you, ‘Why did you go so near the city to fight? Did you not know that they would shoot from the wall?
2 Samuel 11:21  Who killed Abimelech the son of Jerubbesheth? Did not a woman cast an upper millstone on him from the wall, so that he died at Thebez? Why did you go so near the wall?’ then you shall say, ‘Your servant Uriah the Hittite is dead also.’”
2 Samuel 11:22 So the messenger went and came and told David all that Joab had sent him to tell.
2 Samuel 11:23 The messenger said to David, “The men gained an advantage over us and came out against us in the field, but we drove them back to the entrance of the gate.
2 Samuel 11:24 Then the archers shot at your servants from the wall. Some of the king's servants are dead, and your servant Uriah the Hittite is dead also.”
2 Samuel 11:25 David said to the messenger, “Thus shall you say to Joab, ‘Do not let this matter displease you, for the sword devours now one and now another. Strengthen your attack against the city and overthrow it.’ And encourage him.”
2 Samuel 11:26 When the wife of Uriah heard that Uriah her husband was dead, she lamented over her husband.
2 Samuel 11:27 And when the mourning was over, David sent and brought her to his house, and she became his wife and bore him a son. But the thing that David had done displeased the LORD.
2 Samuel 12:1 And the LORD sent “There were two men in a certain city, the one rich and the other poor.
2 Samuel 12:2 The rich man had very many flocks and herds,
2 Samuel 12:3 but the poor man had nothing but one little ewe lamb, which he had bought. And he brought it up, and it grew up with him and with his children. It used to eat of his morsel and drink from his cup and lie in his arms,  and it was like a daughter to him.
2 Samuel 12:4 Now there came a traveler to the rich man, and he was unwilling to take one of his own flock or herd to prepare for the guest who had come to him, but he took the poor man's lamb and prepared it for the man who had come to him.”
2 Samuel 12:5 Then David's anger was greatly kindled against the man, and he said to Nathan, “As the LORD lives, the man who has done this deserves to die,
2 Samuel 12:6 and he shall restore the lamb fourfold, because he did this thing, and because he had no pity.”
2 Samuel 12:7 Nathan said to David, “You are the man! Thus says the LORD, the God of Israel, ‘I anointed you king over Israel, and I delivered you out of the hand of Saul.
2 Samuel 12:8 And I gave you your master's house and your master's wives into your arms and gave you the house of Israel and of Judah. And if this were too little, I would add to you as much more.
2 Samuel 12:9  have taken his wife to be your wife and have killed him with the sword of the Ammonites.
2 Samuel 12:10 Now therefore the sword shall never depart from your house, because you have despised me and have taken the wife of Uriah the Hittite to be your wife.’
2 Samuel 12:11 Thus says the LORD, ‘Behold, I will raise up evil against you out of your own house. And I will take your wives before your eyes and give them to your neighbor, and he shall lie with your wives in the sight of this sun.
2 Samuel 12:12 For you did it secretly, but I will do this thing before all Israel and before the sun.’”
2 Samuel 12:13  “The LORD also has put away your sin; you shall not die.
2 Samuel 12:14 Nevertheless, because by this deed you have utterly  the child who is born to you shall die.”
2 Samuel 12:15 Then Nathan went to his house. David's Child Dies  And the LORD afflicted the child that Uriah's wife bore to David, and he became sick.
2 Samuel 12:16 David therefore sought God on behalf of the child. And David and lay all night on the ground.
2 Samuel 12:17 And the elders of his house stood beside him, to raise him from the ground, but he would not, nor did he eat food with them.
2 Samuel 12:18 On the seventh day the child died. And the servants of David were afraid to tell him that the child was dead, for they said, “Behold, while the child was yet alive, we spoke to him, and he did not listen to us. How then can we say to him the child is dead? He may do himself some harm.”
2 Samuel 12:19 But when David saw that his servants were whispering together, David understood that the child was dead. And David said to his servants, “Is the child dead?” They said, “He is dead.”
2 Samuel 12:20 Then David arose from the earth and worshiped. He then went to his own house. And when he asked, they set food before him, and he ate.
2 Samuel 12:21 Then his servants said to him, “What is this thing that you have done? You fasted and wept for the child while he was alive; but when the child died, you arose and ate food.”
2 Samuel 12:22 He said, “While the child was still alive, I fasted and wept, for I said, ‘Who knows whether the LORD will be gracious to me, that the child may live?’
2 Samuel 12:23 But now he is dead. Why should I fast? Can I bring him back again? I shall go to him, but he will not return to me.”
2 Samuel 12:24 Then David comforted his wife, Bathsheba, and went in to her and lay with her, and Solomon. And the LORD loved him
2 Samuel 12:25 and sent a message by Nathan the prophet. So he called his name Jedidiah,  because of the LORD.
2 Samuel 12:26  Rabbah of the Ammonites and took the royal city.
2 Samuel 12:27 And Joab sent messengers to David and said, “I have fought against Rabbah; moreover, I have taken the city of waters.
2 Samuel 12:28 Now then gather the rest of the people together and encamp against the city and take it, lest I take the city and it be called by my name.”
2 Samuel 12:29 So David gathered all the people together and went to Rabbah and fought against it and took it.
2 Samuel 12:30 And he took the crown of their king from his head. The weight of it was a talent  of gold, and in it was a precious stone, and it was placed on David's head. And he brought out the spoil of the city, a very great amount.
2 Samuel 12:31 And he brought out the people who were in it and set them to labor with saws and iron picks and iron axes and made them toil at  the brick kilns. And thus he did to all the cities of the Ammonites. Then David and all the people returned to Jerusalem.
2 Samuel 13:1 Now Tamar. And after a time Amnon, David's son, loved her.
2 Samuel 13:2 And Amnon was so tormented that he made himself ill because of his sister Tamar, for she was a virgin, and it seemed impossible to Amnon to do anything to her.
2 Samuel 13:3 But Amnon had a friend, whose name was Jonadab, the son of Shimeah, David's brother. And Jonadab was a very crafty man.
2 Samuel 13:4 And he said to him, “O son of the king, why are you so haggard morning after morning? Will you not tell me?” Amnon said to him, “I love Tamar, my brother Absalom's sister.”
2 Samuel 13:5 Jonadab said to him, “Lie down on your bed and pretend to be ill. And when your father comes to see you, say to him, ‘Let my sister Tamar come and give me bread to eat, and prepare the food in my sight, that I may see it and eat it from her hand.’”
2 Samuel 13:6 So Amnon lay down and pretended to be ill. And when the king came to see him, Amnon said to the king, “Please let my sister Tamar come and make a couple of cakes in my sight, that I may eat from her hand.”
2 Samuel 13:7 Then David sent home to Tamar, saying, “Go to your brother Amnon's house and prepare food for him.”
2 Samuel 13:8 So Tamar went to her brother Amnon's house, where he was lying down. And she took dough and kneaded it and made cakes in his sight and baked the cakes.
2 Samuel 13:9 And she took the pan and emptied it out before him, but he refused to eat. And Amnon said, “Send out everyone from me.” So everyone went out from him.
2 Samuel 13:10 Then Amnon said to Tamar, “Bring the food into the chamber, that I may eat from your hand.” And Tamar took the cakes she had made and brought them into the chamber to Amnon her brother.
2 Samuel 13:11 But when she brought them near him to eat, he took hold of her and said to her, “Come, lie with me, my sister.”
2 Samuel 13:12 She answered him, “No, my brother, do not violate outrageous thing.
2 Samuel 13:13 As for me, where could I carry my shame? And as for you, you would be as one of the outrageous fools in Israel. Now therefore, please speak to the king, for he will not withhold me from you.”
2 Samuel 13:14 But he would not listen to her, and being stronger than she, he violated her and lay with her.
2 Samuel 13:15 Then Amnon hated her with very great hatred, so that the hatred with which he hated her was greater than the love with which he had loved her. And Amnon said to her, “Get up! Go!”
2 Samuel 13:16 But she said to him, “No, my brother, for this wrong in sending me away is greater than the other that you did to me.”  But he would not listen to her.
2 Samuel 13:17 He called the young man who served him and said, “Put this woman out of my presence and bolt the door after her.”
2 Samuel 13:18 Now she was wearing  for thus were the virgin daughters of the king dressed. So his servant put her out and bolted the door after her.
2 Samuel 13:19 And Tamar she laid her hand on her head and went away, crying aloud as she went.
2 Samuel 13:20 And her brother Absalom said to her, “Has Amnon your brother been with you? Now hold your peace, my sister. He is your brother; do not take this to heart.” So Tamar lived, a desolate woman, in her brother Absalom's house.
2 Samuel 13:21 When King David heard of all these things, he was very angry.
2 Samuel 13:22 But Absalom spoke to Amnon neither good nor bad, for Absalom hated Amnon, because he had violated his sister Tamar.
2 Samuel 13:23 After two full years Absalom had sheepshearers at Baal-hazor, which is near Ephraim, and Absalom invited all the king's sons.
2 Samuel 13:24 And Absalom came to the king and said, “Behold, your servant has sheepshearers. Please let the king and his servants go with your servant.”
2 Samuel 13:25 But the king said to Absalom, “No, my son, let us not all go, lest we be burdensome to you.” He pressed him, but he would not go but gave him his blessing.
2 Samuel 13:26 Then Absalom said, “If not, please let my brother Amnon go with us.” And the king said to him, “Why should he go with you?”
2 Samuel 13:27 But Absalom pressed him until he let Amnon and all the king's sons go with him.
2 Samuel 13:28 Then Absalom commanded his servants, “Mark when Amnon's heart is merry with wine, and when I say to you, ‘Strike Amnon,’ then kill him. Do not fear; have I not commanded you? Be courageous and be valiant.”
2 Samuel 13:29 So the servants of Absalom did to Amnon as Absalom had commanded. Then all the king's sons arose, and each mounted his mule and fled.
2 Samuel 13:30 While they were on the way, news came to David, “Absalom has struck down all the king's sons, and not one of them is left.”
2 Samuel 13:31 Then the king arose and lay on the earth. And all his servants who were standing by tore their garments.
2 Samuel 13:32 But Jonadab the son of Shimeah, David's brother, said, “Let not my lord suppose that they have killed all the young men, the king's sons, for Amnon alone is dead. For by the command of Absalom this has been determined from the day he violated his sister Tamar.
2 Samuel 13:33 Now therefore let not my lord the king so take it to heart as to suppose that all the king's sons are dead, for Amnon alone is dead.”
2 Samuel 13:34   by the side of the mountain.
2 Samuel 13:35 And Jonadab said to the king, “Behold, the king's sons have come; as your servant said, so it has come about.”
2 Samuel 13:36 And as soon as he had finished speaking, behold, the king's sons came and lifted up their voice and wept. And the king also and all his servants wept very bitterly.
2 Samuel 13:37  Geshur. And David mourned for his son day after day.
2 Samuel 13:38  So Absalom fled and went to Geshur, and was there three years.
2 Samuel 13:39 And the spirit of the king he was comforted about Amnon, since he was dead.
2 Samuel 14:1 Now Joab the son of Zeruiah knew that the king's heart went out to Absalom.
2 Samuel 14:2 And Joab sent to Do not anoint yourself with oil, but behave like a woman who has been mourning many days for the dead.
2 Samuel 14:3 Go to the king and speak thus to him.” So Joab put the words in her mouth.
2 Samuel 14:4 When the woman of Tekoa came to the king, “Save me, O king.”
2 Samuel 14:5 And the king said to her, “What is your trouble?” She answered, “Alas, I am a widow; my husband is dead.
2 Samuel 14:6 And your servant had two sons, and they quarreled with one another in the field. There was no one to separate them, and one struck the other and killed him.
2 Samuel 14:7 And now the whole clan has risen against your servant, and they say, ‘Give up the man who struck his brother, that we may put him to death for the life of his brother whom he killed.’ And so they would remnant on the face of the earth.”
2 Samuel 14:8 Then the king said to the woman, “Go to your house, and I will give orders concerning you.”
2 Samuel 14:9 And the woman of Tekoa said to the king, “On me be the guilt, my lord the king, and on my father's house; let the king and his throne be guiltless.”
2 Samuel 14:10 The king said, “If anyone says anything to you, bring him to me, and he shall never touch you again.”
2 Samuel 14:11 Then she said, “Please let the king invoke the LORD your God, that not one hair of your son shall fall to the ground.”
2 Samuel 14:12 Then the woman said, “Please let your servant speak a word to my lord the king.” He said, “Speak.”
2 Samuel 14:13 And the woman said, “Why then have you planned such a thing against his banished one home again.
2 Samuel 14:14 We must all die; we are so that the banished one will not remain an outcast.
2 Samuel 14:15 Now I have come to say this to my lord the king because the people have made me afraid, and your servant thought, ‘I will speak to the king; it may be that the king will perform the request of his servant.
2 Samuel 14:16 For the king will hear and deliver his servant from the hand of the man who would destroy me and my son together from the heritage of God.’
2 Samuel 14:17 And your servant thought, ‘The word of my lord the king will set me at rest,’ for my lord the king is like the angel of God to discern good and evil. The LORD your God be with you!”
2 Samuel 14:18 Then the king answered the woman, “Do not hide from me anything I ask you.” And the woman said, “Let my lord the king speak.”
2 Samuel 14:19 The king said, “Is the hand of Joab with you in all this?” The woman answered and said, it was he who put all these words in the mouth of your servant.
2 Samuel 14:20 In order to change the course of things your servant Joab did this. But my lord has wisdom like the wisdom of the angel of God to know all things that are on the earth.”
2 Samuel 14:21 Then the king said to Joab, “Behold now, I grant this; go, bring back the young man Absalom.”
2 Samuel 14:22 And Joab fell on his face to the ground and paid homage and blessed the king. And Joab said, “Today your servant knows that I have found favor in your sight, my lord the king, in that the king has granted the request of his servant.”
2 Samuel 14:23 So Joab arose and went to Geshur and brought Absalom to Jerusalem.
2 Samuel 14:24 And the king said, “Let him dwell apart in his own house; he is not to come into my presence.” So Absalom lived apart in his own house and did not come into the king's presence.
2 Samuel 14:25 Now in all Israel there was no one so much to be praised for his handsome appearance as Absalom. From the sole of his foot to the crown of his head there was no blemish in him.
2 Samuel 14:26 And when he cut the hair of his head (for at the end of every year he used to cut it; when it was heavy on him, he  by the king's weight.
2 Samuel 14:27 There were born to Absalom three sons, and one daughter whose name was Tamar. She was a beautiful woman.
2 Samuel 14:28 So Absalom lived two full years in Jerusalem, without coming into the king's presence.
2 Samuel 14:29 Then Absalom sent for Joab, to send him to the king, but Joab would not come to him. And he sent a second time, but Joab would not come.
2 Samuel 14:30 Then he said to his servants, “See, Joab's field is next to mine, and he has barley there; go and set it on fire.” So Absalom's servants set the field on fire.
2 Samuel 14:31 Then Joab arose and went to Absalom at his house and said to him, “Why have your servants set my field on fire?”
2 Samuel 14:32 Absalom answered Joab, “Behold, I sent word to you, ‘Come here, that I may send you to the king, to ask, “Why have I come from and if there is guilt in me, let him put me to death.’”
2 Samuel 14:33 Then Joab went to the king and told him, and he summoned Absalom. So he came to the king and bowed himself on his face to the ground before the king, and the king kissed Absalom.
2 Samuel 15:1 After this Absalom got himself a chariot and horses, and fifty men to run before him.
2 Samuel 15:2 And Absalom used to rise early and stand beside the way of the gate. And when any man had a dispute to come before the king for judgment, Absalom would call to him and say, “From what city are you?” And when he said, “Your servant is of such and such a tribe in Israel,”
2 Samuel 15:3 Absalom would say to him, “See, your claims are good and right, but there is no man designated by the king to hear you.”
2 Samuel 15:4 Then Absalom would say, “Oh that I were judge in the land! Then every man with a dispute or cause might come to me, and I would give him justice.”
2 Samuel 15:5 And whenever a man came near to pay homage to him, he would put out his hand and take hold of him and kiss him.
2 Samuel 15:6 Thus Absalom did to all of Israel who came to the king for judgment. So Absalom stole the hearts of the men of Israel.
2 Samuel 15:7 And at the end of four  years Absalom said to the king, “Please let me go and pay my vow, which I have vowed to the LORD, in Hebron.
2 Samuel 15:8 For your servant  the LORD.’”
2 Samuel 15:9 The king said to him, “Go in peace.” So he arose and went to Hebron.
2 Samuel 15:10 But Absalom sent secret messengers throughout all the tribes of Israel, saying, “As soon as you hear the sound of the trumpet, then say, ‘Absalom is king at Hebron!’”
2 Samuel 15:11 With Absalom went two hundred men from Jerusalem who were invited guests, and they went in their innocence and knew nothing.
2 Samuel 15:12 And while Absalom was offering the sacrifices, he sent for kept increasing.
2 Samuel 15:13 And a messenger came to David, saying, “The hearts of the men of Israel have gone after Absalom.”
2 Samuel 15:14 Then David said to all his servants who were with him at Jerusalem, “Arise, and let us flee, or else there will be no escape for us from Absalom. Go quickly, lest he overtake us quickly and bring down ruin on us and strike the city with the edge of the sword.”
2 Samuel 15:15 And the king's servants said to the king, “Behold, your servants are ready to do whatever my lord the king decides.”
2 Samuel 15:16 So the king went out, and all his household after him. And the king left ten concubines to keep the house.
2 Samuel 15:17 And the king went out, and all the people after him. And they halted at the last house.
2 Samuel 15:18 And Gath, passed on before the king.
2 Samuel 15:19 Then the king said to Ittai the Gittite, “Why do you also go with us? Go back and stay with the king, for you are a foreigner and also an exile from your home.
2 Samuel 15:20 You came only yesterday, and shall I today make you wander about with us, since I go  steadfast love and faithfulness to you.”
2 Samuel 15:21 But Ittai answered the king, wherever my lord the king shall be, whether for death or for life, there also will your servant be.”
2 Samuel 15:22 And David said to Ittai, “Go then, pass on.” So Ittai the Gittite passed on with all his men and all the little ones who were with him.
2 Samuel 15:23 And all the land wept aloud as all the people passed by, and the king crossed the wilderness.
2 Samuel 15:24 And bearing the ark of the covenant of God. And they set down the ark of God until the people had all passed out of the city.
2 Samuel 15:25 Then the king said to Zadok, “Carry the ark of God back into the city. If I find favor in the eyes of the LORD, he will dwelling place.
2 Samuel 15:26 But if he says, ‘I have no let him do to me what seems good to him.”
2 Samuel 15:27 The king also said to Zadok the priest, “Are you not a your two sons, Ahimaaz your son, and Jonathan the son of Abiathar.
2 Samuel 15:28 See, I will wait at the wilderness until word comes from you to inform me.”
2 Samuel 15:29 So Zadok and Abiathar carried the ark of God back to Jerusalem, and they remained there.
2 Samuel 15:30 But David went up the ascent of the Mount of Olives, weeping as he went, weeping as they went.
2 Samuel 15:31 And it was told David, “Ahithophel is among the conspirators with Absalom.” And David said, “O LORD, please turn the counsel of Ahithophel into foolishness.”
2 Samuel 15:32 While David was coming to the summit, where God was worshiped, behold, Hushai dirt on his head.
2 Samuel 15:33 David said to him, “If you go on with me, you will be a burden to me.
2 Samuel 15:34 But if you return to the city and say to Absalom, ‘I will be your servant, O king; as I have been your father's servant in time past, so now I will be your servant,’ then you will defeat for me the counsel of Ahithophel.
2 Samuel 15:35 Are not Zadok and Abiathar the priests with you there? So whatever you hear from the king's house, tell it to Zadok and Abiathar the priests.
2 Samuel 15:36 Behold, and by them you shall send to me everything you hear.”
2 Samuel 15:37 So Hushai, just as Absalom was entering Jerusalem.
2 Samuel 16:1 When David had passed a little beyond a hundred bunches of raisins, a hundred of summer fruits, and a skin of wine.
2 Samuel 16:2 And the king said to Ziba, “Why have you brought these?” Ziba answered, faint in the wilderness to drink.”
2 Samuel 16:3 And the king said, “And where is your master's son?” Ziba said to the king, “Behold, he remains in Jerusalem, for he said, ‘Today the house of Israel will give me back the kingdom of my father.’”
2 Samuel 16:4 Then the king said to Ziba, “Behold, all that belonged to Mephibosheth is now yours.” And Ziba said, “I pay homage; let me ever find favor in your sight, my lord the king.”
2 Samuel 16:5 When King David came to he cursed continually.
2 Samuel 16:6 And he threw stones at David and at all the servants of King David, and all the people and all the mighty men were on his right hand and on his left.
2 Samuel 16:7 And Shimei said as he cursed, “Get out, get out, you man of blood, you worthless man!
2 Samuel 16:8 The LORD the blood of the house of Saul, in whose place you have reigned, and the LORD has given the kingdom into the hand of your son Absalom. See, your evil is on you, for you are a man of blood.”
2 Samuel 16:9 Then Abishai the son of Zeruiah said to the king, “Why should this curse my lord the king? Let me go over and take off his head.”
2 Samuel 16:10 But the king said, you sons of Zeruiah? If he is cursing because the LORD has said to him, ‘Curse David,’ who then shall say, ‘Why have you done so?’”
2 Samuel 16:11 And David said to Abishai and to all his servants, “Behold, my own son seeks my life; how much more now may this Benjaminite! Leave him alone, and let him curse, for the LORD has told him to.
2 Samuel 16:12 It may be that the LORD will look on the wrong done to me,  and that the LORD will repay me with good for his cursing today.”
2 Samuel 16:13 So David and his men went on the road, while Shimei went along on the hillside opposite him and cursed as he went and threw stones at him and flung dust.
2 Samuel 16:14 And the king, and all the people who were with him,  And there he refreshed himself.
2 Samuel 16:15  Now Absalom and all the people, the men of Israel, came to Jerusalem, and Ahithophel with him.
2 Samuel 16:16 And when Hushai the Archite, “Long live the king! Long live the king!”
2 Samuel 16:17 And Absalom said to Hushai, “Is this your loyalty to your friend? Why did you not go with your friend?”
2 Samuel 16:18 And Hushai said to Absalom, “No, for whom the LORD and this people and all the men of Israel have chosen, his I will be, and with him I will remain.
2 Samuel 16:19 And again, whom should I serve? Should it not be his son? As I have served your father, so I will serve you.”
2 Samuel 16:20 Then Absalom said to Ahithophel, “Give your counsel. What shall we do?”
2 Samuel 16:21 Ahithophel said to Absalom, “Go in to the hands of all who are with you will be strengthened.”
2 Samuel 16:22 So they pitched a tent for Absalom in the sight of all Israel.
2 Samuel 16:23 Now in those days the counsel that Ahithophel gave was as if one consulted the word of God; so was all the counsel of Ahithophel esteemed, both by David and by Absalom.
2 Samuel 17:1 Moreover, Ahithophel said to Absalom, “Let me choose twelve thousand men, and I will arise and pursue David tonight.
2 Samuel 17:2 I will come upon him while he is I will strike down only the king,
2 Samuel 17:3 and I will bring all the people back to you as a bride comes home to her husband. You seek the life of only one man,  and all the people will be at peace.”
2 Samuel 17:4 And the advice seemed right in the eyes of Absalom and all the elders of Israel.
2 Samuel 17:5 Then Absalom said, “Call Hushai the Archite also, and let us hear what he has to say.”
2 Samuel 17:6 And when Hushai came to Absalom, Absalom said to him, “Thus has Ahithophel spoken; shall we do as he says? If not, you speak.”
2 Samuel 17:7 Then Hushai said to Absalom, “This time the counsel that Ahithophel has given is not good.”
2 Samuel 17:8 Hushai said, “You know that your father and his men are mighty men, and that they are enraged, like a bear robbed of her cubs in the field. Besides, your father is expert in war; he will not spend the night with the people.
2 Samuel 17:9 Behold, even now he has hidden himself in one of the pits or in some other place. And as soon as some of the people fall  at the first attack, whoever hears it will say, ‘There has been a slaughter among the people who follow Absalom.’
2 Samuel 17:10 Then even the valiant man, whose heart is like the heart of a lion, will utterly melt with fear, for all Israel knows that your father is a mighty man, and that those who are with him are valiant men.
2 Samuel 17:11 But my counsel is that all Israel be gathered to you, as the sand by the sea for multitude, and that you go to battle in person.
2 Samuel 17:12 So we shall come upon him in some place where he is to be found, and we shall light upon him as the dew falls on the ground, and of him and all the men with him not one will be left.
2 Samuel 17:13 If he withdraws into a city, then all Israel will bring ropes to that city, and we shall drag it into the valley, until not even a pebble is to be found there.”
2 Samuel 17:14 And Absalom and all the men of Israel said, “The counsel of Hushai the Archite is better than the counsel of Ahithophel.”  to defeat the good counsel of Ahithophel, so that the LORD might bring harm upon Absalom.
2 Samuel 17:15  Then Hushai said to Zadok and Abiathar the priests, “Thus and so did Ahithophel counsel Absalom and the elders of Israel, and thus and so have I counseled.
2 Samuel 17:16 Now therefore send quickly and tell David, ‘Do not stay tonight at swallowed up.’”
2 Samuel 17:17 Now En-rogel. A female servant was to go and tell them, and they were to go and tell King David, for they were not to be seen entering the city.
2 Samuel 17:18 But a young man saw them and told Absalom. So both of them went away quickly and came to the house of a man at Bahurim, who had a well in his courtyard. And they went down into it.
2 Samuel 17:19  And the woman took and spread a covering over the well's mouth and scattered grain on it, and nothing was known of it.
2 Samuel 17:20 When Absalom's servants came to the woman at the house, they said, “Where are Ahimaaz and Jonathan?” And the woman said to them, “They have gone over the brook  of water.” And when they had sought and could not find them, they returned to Jerusalem.
2 Samuel 17:21 After they had gone, the men came up out of the well, and went and told King David. They said to David, “Arise, and go quickly over the water, for thus and so has Ahithophel counseled against you.”
2 Samuel 17:22 Then David arose, and all the people who were with him, and they crossed the Jordan. By daybreak not one was left who had not crossed the Jordan.
2 Samuel 17:23 When Ahithophel saw that his counsel was not followed, he saddled his donkey and went off home to hanged himself, and he died and was buried in the tomb of his father.
2 Samuel 17:24 Then David came to Mahanaim. And Absalom crossed the Jordan with all the men of Israel.
2 Samuel 17:25 Now Absalom had set Nahash, sister of Zeruiah, Joab's mother.
2 Samuel 17:26 And Israel and Absalom encamped in the land of Gilead.
2 Samuel 17:27 When David came to Mahanaim, Barzillai the Gileadite from Rogelim,
2 Samuel 17:28 brought beds, basins, and earthen vessels, wheat, barley, flour, parched grain, beans and lentils,
2 Samuel 17:29 honey and curds and sheep and cheese from the herd, for David and the people with him to eat, for they said, “The people are hungry and in the wilderness.”
2 Samuel 18:1 Then David mustered the men who were with him and set over them commanders of thousands and commanders of hundreds.
2 Samuel 18:2 And David sent out the army, one third under the command of Joab, one third under the command of Abishai the son of Zeruiah, Joab's brother, and one third under the command of Ittai the Gittite. And the king said to the men, “I myself will also go out with you.”
2 Samuel 18:3  But the men said, “You shall not go out. For if we flee, they will not care about us. If half of us die, they will not care about us. But you are worth ten thousand of us. Therefore it is better that you send us help from the city.”
2 Samuel 18:4 The king said to them, “Whatever seems best to you I will do.” So the king stood at the side of the gate, while all the army marched out by hundreds and by thousands.
2 Samuel 18:5 And the king ordered Joab and Abishai and Ittai, “Deal gently for my sake with the young man Absalom.” And all the people heard when the king gave orders to all the commanders about Absalom.
2 Samuel 18:6 So the army went out into the field against Israel, and the battle was fought in the forest of Ephraim.
2 Samuel 18:7 And the men of Israel were defeated there by the servants of David, and the loss there was great on that day, twenty thousand men.
2 Samuel 18:8 The battle spread over the face of all the country, and the forest devoured more people that day than the sword.
2 Samuel 18:9 And Absalom happened to meet the servants of David. Absalom was riding on his mule, and the mule went under the thick branches of a great oak, and his head caught fast in the oak, and he was suspended between heaven and earth, while the mule that was under him went on.
2 Samuel 18:10 And a certain man saw it and told Joab, “Behold, I saw Absalom hanging in an oak.”
2 Samuel 18:11 Joab said to the man who told him, “What, you saw him! Why then did you not strike him there to the ground? I would have been glad to give you ten pieces of silver and a belt.”
2 Samuel 18:12 But the man said to Joab, “Even if I felt in my hand the weight of a thousand pieces of silver, I would not reach out my hand against the king's son, for in our hearing the king commanded you and Abishai and Ittai, ‘For my sake protect the young man Absalom.’
2 Samuel 18:13 On the other hand, if I had dealt treacherously against his life  (and there is nothing hidden from the king), then you yourself would have stood aloof.”
2 Samuel 18:14 Joab said, “I will not waste time like this with you.” And he took three javelins in his hand and thrust them into the heart of Absalom while he was still alive in the oak.
2 Samuel 18:15 And ten young men, Joab's armor-bearers, surrounded Absalom and struck him and killed him.
2 Samuel 18:16 Then Joab blew the trumpet, and the troops came back from pursuing Israel, for Joab restrained them.
2 Samuel 18:17 And they took Absalom and threw him into a great pit in the forest and raised over him fled every one to his own home.
2 Samuel 18:18 Now Absalom in his lifetime had taken and set up for himself  to this day.
2 Samuel 18:19 Then Ahimaaz the son of Zadok said, the LORD has delivered him from the hand of his enemies.”
2 Samuel 18:20 And Joab said to him, “You are not to carry news today. You may carry news another day, but today you shall carry no news, because the king's son is dead.”
2 Samuel 18:21 Then Joab said to the Cushite, “Go, tell the king what you have seen.” The Cushite bowed before Joab, and ran.
2 Samuel 18:22 Then Ahimaaz the son of Zadok said again to Joab, “Come what may, let me also run after the Cushite.” And Joab said, “Why will you run, my son, seeing that you will have no reward for the news?”
2 Samuel 18:23 “Come what may,” he said, “I will run.” So he said to him, “Run.” Then Ahimaaz ran by the way of the plain, and outran the Cushite.
2 Samuel 18:24 Now David the watchman went up to the roof of the gate by the wall, and when he lifted up his eyes and looked, he saw a man running alone.
2 Samuel 18:25 The watchman called out and told the king. And the king said, “If he is alone, there is news in his mouth.” And he drew nearer and nearer.
2 Samuel 18:26 The watchman saw another man running. And the watchman called to the gate and said, “See, another man running alone!” The king said, “He also brings news.”
2 Samuel 18:27 The watchman said, “I think the running of the first is “He is a good man and comes with good news.”
2 Samuel 18:28 Then Ahimaaz cried out to the king, “All is well.” And he bowed before the king with his face to the earth and said, “Blessed be the LORD your God, who has delivered up the men who raised their hand against my lord the king.”
2 Samuel 18:29 And the king said, “Is it well with the young man Absalom?” Ahimaaz answered, “When Joab sent the king's servant, your servant, I saw a great commotion, but I do not know what it was.”
2 Samuel 18:30 And the king said, “Turn aside and stand here.” So he turned aside and stood still.
2 Samuel 18:31 And behold, the Cushite came, and the Cushite said, “Good news for my lord the king! For the LORD has delivered you this day from the hand of all who rose up against you.”
2 Samuel 18:32 The king said to the Cushite, “May the enemies of my lord the king and all who rise up against you for evil be like that young man.”
2 Samuel 18:33  “O my son Absalom, my son, my son Absalom! Would I had died instead of you, O Absalom, my son, my son!”
2 Samuel 19:1 It was told Joab, “Behold, the king is weeping and mourning for Absalom.”
2 Samuel 19:2 So the victory that day was turned into mourning for all the people, for the people heard that day, “The king is grieving for his son.”
2 Samuel 19:3 And the people stole into the city that day as people steal in who are ashamed when they flee in battle.
2 Samuel 19:4 The king “O my son Absalom, O Absalom, my son, my son!”
2 Samuel 19:5 Then Joab came into the house to the king and said, “You have today covered with shame the faces of all your servants, who have this day saved your life and the lives of your sons and your daughters and the lives of your wives and your concubines,
2 Samuel 19:6 because you love those who hate you and hate those who love you. For you have made it clear today that commanders and servants are nothing to you, for today I know that if Absalom were alive and all of us were dead today, then you would be pleased.
2 Samuel 19:7 Now therefore arise, go out and speak kindly to your servants, for I swear by the LORD, if you do not go, not a man will stay with you this night, and this will be worse for you than all the evil that has come upon you from your youth until now.”
2 Samuel 19:8 Then the king arose and took his fled every man to his own home.
2 Samuel 19:9 And all the people were arguing throughout all the tribes of Israel, saying, he has fled out of the land from Absalom.
2 Samuel 19:10 But Absalom, whom we anointed over us, is dead in battle. Now therefore why do you say nothing about bringing the king back?”
2 Samuel 19:11 And King David sent this message to
2 Samuel 19:12 You are my brothers; you are my bone and my flesh. Why then should you be the last to bring back the king?’
2 Samuel 19:13 And say to Amasa, commander of my army from now on in place of Joab.’”
2 Samuel 19:14 And he swayed the heart of all the men of Judah as one man, so that they sent word to the king, “Return, both you and all your servants.”
2 Samuel 19:15 So the king came back to the Jordan, and Judah came to Gilgal to meet the king and to bring the king over the Jordan.
2 Samuel 19:16 And Shimei the son of Gera, the Benjaminite, from Bahurim, hurried to come down with the men of Judah to meet King David.
2 Samuel 19:17 And with him were a thousand men from Benjamin. And Ziba the servant of the house of Saul, with his fifteen sons and his twenty servants, rushed down to the Jordan before the king,
2 Samuel 19:18 and they crossed the ford to bring over the king's household and to do his pleasure. And Shimei the son of Gera fell down before the king, as he was about to cross the Jordan,
2 Samuel 19:19 and said to the king, did wrong on the day my lord the king left Jerusalem. Do not let the king take it to heart.
2 Samuel 19:20 For your servant knows that I have sinned. Therefore, behold, I have come this day, the first of all the house of Joseph to come down to meet my lord the king.”
2 Samuel 19:21 Abishai the son of Zeruiah answered, “Shall not Shimei be put to death for this, because he cursed the LORD's anointed?”
2 Samuel 19:22 But David said, Shall anyone be put to death in Israel this day? For do I not know that I am this day king over Israel?”
2 Samuel 19:23  And the king said to Shimei, “You shall not die.” And the king gave him his oath.
2 Samuel 19:24 And Mephibosheth the son of Saul came down to meet the king. He had neither taken care of his feet nor trimmed his beard nor washed his clothes, from the day the king departed until the day he came back in safety.
2 Samuel 19:25 And when he came to Jerusalem to meet the king, the king said to him, “Why did you not go with me, Mephibosheth?”
2 Samuel 19:26 He answered, “My lord, O king, my servant deceived me, for your servant said to him, ‘I will saddle a donkey for myself, your servant is lame.
2 Samuel 19:27  like the angel of God; do therefore what seems good to you.
2 Samuel 19:28 For all my father's house were but men doomed to death before my lord the king, but you set your servant among those who eat at your table. What further right have I, then, to cry to the king?”
2 Samuel 19:29 And the king said to him, “Why speak any more of your affairs? I have decided: you and Ziba shall divide the land.”
2 Samuel 19:30 And Mephibosheth said to the king, “Oh, let him take it all, since my lord the king has come safely home.”
2 Samuel 19:31 Now Barzillai the Gileadite had come down from Rogelim, and he went on with the king to the Jordan, to escort him over the Jordan.
2 Samuel 19:32 Barzillai was a very aged man, eighty years old. He had provided the king with food while he stayed at Mahanaim, for he was a very wealthy man.
2 Samuel 19:33 And the king said to Barzillai, “Come over with me, and I will provide for you with me in Jerusalem.”
2 Samuel 19:34 But Barzillai said to the king, “How many years have I still to live, that I should go up with the king to Jerusalem?
2 Samuel 19:35 I am this day an added burden to my lord the king?
2 Samuel 19:36 Your servant will go a little way over the Jordan with the king. Why should the king repay me with such a reward?
2 Samuel 19:37 Please let your servant return, that I may die in my own city near the grave of my father and my mother. But here is your servant Chimham. Let him go over with my lord the king, and do for him whatever seems good to you.”
2 Samuel 19:38 And the king answered, “Chimham shall go over with me, and I will do for him whatever seems good to you, and all that you desire of me I will do for you.”
2 Samuel 19:39 Then all the people went over the Jordan, and the king went over. And the king kissed Barzillai and blessed him, and he returned to his own home.
2 Samuel 19:40 The king went on to Gilgal, and Chimham went on with him. All the people of Judah, and also half the people of Israel, brought the king on his way.
2 Samuel 19:41 Then all the men of Israel came to the king and said to the king, “Why have our brothers the men of Judah stolen you away and brought the king and his household over the Jordan, and all David's men with him?”
2 Samuel 19:42 All the men of Judah answered the men of Israel, “Because the king is our close relative. Why then are you angry over this matter? Have we eaten at all at the king's expense? Or has he given us any gift?”
2 Samuel 19:43 And the men of Israel answered the men of Judah, “We have But the words of the men of Judah were fiercer than the words of the men of Israel.
2 Samuel 20:1 Now there happened to be thereevery man to his tents, O Israel!”
2 Samuel 20:2 So all the men of Israel withdrew from David and followed Sheba the son of Bichri. But the men of Judah followed their king steadfastly from the Jordan to Jerusalem.
2 Samuel 20:3 And David came to his house at Jerusalem. And the king took the ten concubines whom he had left to care for the house and put them in a house under guard and provided for them, but did not go in to them. So they were shut up until the day of their death, living as if in widowhood.
2 Samuel 20:4 Then the king said to Amasa, “Call the men of Judah together to me within three days, and be here yourself.”
2 Samuel 20:5 So Amasa went to summon Judah, but he delayed beyond the set time that had been appointed him.
2 Samuel 20:6 And David said to Abishai, “Now Sheba the son of Bichri will do us more harm than Absalom. Take
2 Samuel 20:7 And there went out after him Joab's men and the Cherethites and the Pelethites, and all the mighty men. They went out from Jerusalem to pursue Sheba the son of Bichri.
2 Samuel 20:8 When they were at the great stone that is in Gibeon, Amasa came to meet them. Now Joab was wearing a soldier's garment, and over it was a belt with a sword in its sheath fastened on his thigh, and as he went forward it fell out.
2 Samuel 20:9 And Joab said to Amasa, “Is it well with you, my brother?” And Joab took Amasa by the beard with his right hand to kiss him.
2 Samuel 20:10 But Amasa did not observe the sword that was in Joab's hand. in the stomach and spilled his entrails to the ground without striking a second blow, and he died. Then Joab and Abishai his brother pursued Sheba the son of Bichri.
2 Samuel 20:11 And one of Joab's young men took his stand by Amasa and said, “Whoever favors Joab, and whoever is for David, let him follow Joab.”
2 Samuel 20:12 And Amasa lay wallowing in his blood in the highway. And anyone who came by, seeing him, stopped. And when the man saw that all the people stopped, he carried Amasa out of the highway into the field and threw a garment over him.
2 Samuel 20:13 When he was taken out of the highway, all the people went on after Joab to pursue Sheba the son of Bichri.
2 Samuel 20:14 And Sheba passed through all the tribes of Israel to  assembled and followed him in.
2 Samuel 20:15 And all the men who were with Joab came and besieged him in They cast up a mound against the city, and it stood against the rampart, and they were battering the wall to throw it down.
2 Samuel 20:16 Then a wise woman called from the city, “Listen! Listen! Tell Joab, ‘Come here, that I may speak to you.’”
2 Samuel 20:17 And he came near her, and the woman said, “Are you Joab?” He answered, “I am.” Then she said to him, “Listen to the words of your servant.” And he answered, “I am listening.”
2 Samuel 20:18 Then she said, “They used to say in former times, ‘Let them but ask counsel at Abel,’ and so they settled a matter.
2 Samuel 20:19 I am one of those who are peaceable and faithful in Israel. You seek to destroy a city that is a mother in Israel. Why will you the heritage of the LORD?”
2 Samuel 20:20 Joab answered, “Far be it from me, far be it, that I should swallow up or destroy!
2 Samuel 20:21 That is not true. But a man of the hill country of Ephraim, called Sheba the son of Bichri, has lifted up his hand against King David. Give up him alone, and I will withdraw from the city.” And the woman said to Joab, “Behold, his head shall be thrown to you over the wall.”
2 Samuel 20:22 Then the woman went to all the people every man to his home. And Joab returned to Jerusalem to the king.
2 Samuel 20:23  Now Joab was in command of all the army of Israel; and Benaiah the son of Jehoiada was in command of the Cherethites and the Pelethites;
2 Samuel 20:24 and Adoram was in charge of the forced labor; and Jehoshaphat the son of Ahilud was the recorder;
2 Samuel 20:25 and Sheva was secretary; and Zadok and Abiathar were priests;
2 Samuel 20:26 and Ira the Jairite was also David's priest.
2 Samuel 21:1 Now there was a famine in the days of David for three years, year after year. And David sought the face of the LORD. And the LORD said, “There is bloodguilt on Saul and on his house, because he put the Gibeonites to death.”
2 Samuel 21:2 So the king called the Gibeonites and spoke to them. Now the Gibeonites were not of the people of Israel but of the remnant of the Amorites. Although the people of Israel had sworn to spare them, Saul had sought to strike them down in his zeal for the people of Israel and Judah.
2 Samuel 21:3 And David said to the Gibeonites, “What shall I do for you? And how shall I make atonement, that you may bless the heritage of the LORD?”
2 Samuel 21:4 The Gibeonites said to him, “It is not a matter of silver or gold between us and Saul or his house; neither is it for us to put any man to death in Israel.” And he said, “What do you say that I shall do for you?”
2 Samuel 21:5 They said to the king, “The man who consumed us and planned to destroy us, so that we should have no place in all the territory of Israel,
2 Samuel 21:6 let seven of his sons be given to us, so that we may hang them before the LORD at the chosen of the LORD.” And the king said, “I will give them.”
2 Samuel 21:7 But the king spared Mephibosheth, the son of Saul's son Jonathan, because of the oath of the LORD that was between them, between David and Jonathan the son of Saul.
2 Samuel 21:8 The king took the two sons of Adriel the son of Barzillai the Meholathite;
2 Samuel 21:9 and he gave them into the hands of the Gibeonites, and they hanged them on the mountain before the LORD, and the seven of them perished together. They were put to death in the first days of harvest, at the beginning of barley harvest.
2 Samuel 21:10  Then Rizpah the daughter of Aiah took sackcloth and spread it for herself on the rock, from the beginning of harvest until rain fell upon them from the heavens. And she did not allow the birds of the air to come upon them by day, or the beasts of the field by night.
2 Samuel 21:11 When David was told what Rizpah the daughter of Aiah, the concubine of Saul, had done,
2 Samuel 21:12 David went and took the bones of Saul and the bones of his son Jonathan from the men of Jabesh-gilead, Beth-shan, where the Philistines had hanged them, on the day the Philistines killed Saul on Gilboa.
2 Samuel 21:13 And he brought up from there the bones of Saul and the bones of his son Jonathan; and they gathered the bones of those who were hanged.
2 Samuel 21:14 And they buried the bones of Saul and his son Jonathan in the land of Benjamin in God responded to the plea for the land.
2 Samuel 21:15 There was war again between the Philistines and Israel, and David went down together with his servants, and they fought against the Philistines. And David grew weary.
2 Samuel 21:16 And Ishbi-benob, one of the descendants  of bronze, and who was armed with a new sword, thought to kill David.
2 Samuel 21:17 But Abishai the son of Zeruiah came to his aid and attacked the Philistine and killed him. Then David's men swore to him, the lamp of Israel.”
2 Samuel 21:18  of the giants.
2 Samuel 21:19 And there was again war with the Philistines at Gob, and
2 Samuel 21:20 And there was again war at Gath, where there was a man of great stature, who had six fingers on each hand, and six toes on each foot, twenty-four in number, and he also was descended from the giants.
2 Samuel 21:21 And when he taunted Israel, Jonathan the son of Shimei, David's brother, struck him down.
2 Samuel 21:22 These four were descended from the giants in Gath, and they fell by the hand of David and by the hand of his servants.
2 Samuel 22:1 And David spoke to the LORD the words of this song on the day when the LORD delivered him from the hand of all his enemies, and from the hand of Saul.
2 Samuel 22:2 “The LORD is my rock and my fortress and my deliverer,
2 Samuel 22:3  my refuge, my savior; you save me from violence.
2 Samuel 22:4 I call upon the LORD, who is worthy to be praised, and I am saved from my enemies.
2 Samuel 22:5
2 Samuel 22:6  the cords of Sheol entangled me; the snares of death confronted me.
2 Samuel 22:7  came to his ears.
2 Samuel 22:8 “Thenthe foundations of the heavens trembled and quaked, because he was angry.
2 Samuel 22:9 Smoke went up from his nostrils,glowing coals flamed forth from him.
2 Samuel 22:10 thick darkness was under his feet.
2 Samuel 22:11 He rode on a cherub and flew; he was seen on the wings of the wind.
2 Samuel 22:12 He made his canopy, thick clouds, a gathering of water.
2 Samuel 22:13 Out of the brightness before him coals of fire flamed forth.
2 Samuel 22:14  The LORD thundered from heaven, and the Most High uttered his voice.
2 Samuel 22:15 And he sent out arrows and scattered them; lightning, and routed them.
2 Samuel 22:16 Then the channels of the sea were seen; the foundations of the world were laid bare, at the rebuke of the LORD, at the blast of the breath of his nostrils.
2 Samuel 22:17  “He sent from on high, he took me; he drew me out of many waters.
2 Samuel 22:18 He rescued me from my strong enemy, from those who hated me, for they were too mighty for me.
2 Samuel 22:19 They confronted me in the day of my calamity, but the LORD was my support.
2 Samuel 22:20  he delighted in me.
2 Samuel 22:21 “The LORD cleanness of my hands he rewarded me.
2 Samuel 22:22  For I have kept the ways of the LORD and have not wickedly departed from my God.
2 Samuel 22:23  For all his rules were before me, and from his statutes I did not turn aside.
2 Samuel 22:24 I was blameless before him, and I kept myself from guilt.
2 Samuel 22:25  And the LORD has rewarded me according to my righteousness, according to my cleanness in his sight.
2 Samuel 22:26  blameless man you show yourself blameless;
2 Samuel 22:27 with the purified you deal purely, and with the crooked you make yourself seem tortuous.
2 Samuel 22:28 but your eyes are on the haughty to bring them down.
2 Samuel 22:29  For you are my lamp, O LORD, and my God lightens my darkness.
2 Samuel 22:30 For by you I can run against a troop, and by my God I can leap over a wall.
2 Samuel 22:31 This God — a shield for all those who take refuge in him.
2 Samuel 22:32 “For who is God, but the LORD? And who is a rock, except our God?
2 Samuel 22:33 This God is my
2 Samuel 22:34  on the heights.
2 Samuel 22:35  He trains my hands for war, so that my arms can bend a bow of bronze.
2 Samuel 22:36 You have given me the shield of your salvation, and your gentleness made me great.
2 Samuel 22:37   did not slip;
2 Samuel 22:38 I pursued my enemies and destroyed them, and did not turn back until they were consumed.
2 Samuel 22:39 I consumed them; I thrust them through, so that they did not rise; they fell under my feet.
2 Samuel 22:40 For you equipped me with strength for the battle; you made those who rise against me sink under me.
2 Samuel 22:41 You  those who hated me, and I destroyed them.
2 Samuel 22:42 They looked, but there was none to save; they cried to the LORD, but he did not answer them.
2 Samuel 22:43 I beat them fine like the mire of the streets.
2 Samuel 22:44 “You delivered me from strife with my people;people whom I had not known served me.
2 Samuel 22:45 Foreigners came cringing to me; as soon as they heard of me, they obeyed me.
2 Samuel 22:46 Foreigners lost heart and came trembling out of their fortresses.
2 Samuel 22:47 “The LORD lives, and blessed be my rock, and exalted be the rock of my salvation,
2 Samuel 22:48 the God who gave me vengeance and brought down peoples under me,
2 Samuel 22:49 who brought me out from my enemies; you exalted me above men of violence.
2 Samuel 22:50  “For this I will praise you, O LORD, among the nations, and sing praises to your name.
2 Samuel 22:51  forever.”
2 Samuel 23:1 Now these are the last words of David: The oracle of David, the son of Jesse, the oracle of
2 Samuel 23:2  “The Spirit of the LORD speaks by me; his word is on my tongue.
2 Samuel 23:3 The God of Israel has spoken;  in the fear of God,
2 Samuel 23:4 he  that makes grass to sprout from the earth.
2 Samuel 23:5 “For does not my house stand so with God? For he has made with me an everlasting covenant, ordered in all things and secure. For will he not cause to prosper all my help and my desire?
2 Samuel 23:6 But worthless men  are all like thorns that are thrown away, for they cannot be taken with the hand;
2 Samuel 23:7 but the man who touches them arms himself with iron and the shaft of a spear, and they are utterly consumed with fire.”
2 Samuel 23:8   against eight hundred whom he killed at one time.
2 Samuel 23:9 And next to him among the three mighty men was Eleazar the son of Ahohi. He was with David when they defied the Philistines who were gathered there for battle, and the men of Israel withdrew.
2 Samuel 23:10 He rose and struck down the Philistines until his hand was weary, and his hand clung to the sword. And the LORD brought about a great victory that day, and the men returned after him only to strip the slain.
2 Samuel 23:11 And next to him was Shammah, the son of Agee the  where there was a plot of ground full of lentils, and the men fled from the Philistines.
2 Samuel 23:12 But he took his stand in the midst of the plot and defended it and struck down the Philistines, and the LORD worked a great victory.
2 Samuel 23:13 And three of the thirty chief men went down and came about harvest time to David at the in the Valley of Rephaim.
2 Samuel 23:14 David was then the garrison of the Philistines was then at Bethlehem.
2 Samuel 23:15 And David said longingly, “Oh, that someone would give me water to drink from the well of Bethlehem that is by the gate!”
2 Samuel 23:16 Then the three mighty men broke through the camp of the Philistines and drew water out of the well of Bethlehem that was by the gate and carried and brought it to David. But he would not drink of it. He poured it out to the LORD
2 Samuel 23:17 and said, “Far be it from me, O LORD, that I should do this. Shall I drink the blood of the men who went at the risk of their lives?” Therefore he would not drink it. These things the three mighty men did.
2 Samuel 23:18 Now Abishai, the brother of Joab, the son of Zeruiah, was chief of the thirty.  and killed them and won a name beside the three.
2 Samuel 23:19 He was the most renowned of the thirty the three.
2 Samuel 23:20 And  of Moab. He also went down and struck down a lion in a pit on a day when snow had fallen.
2 Samuel 23:21 And he struck down an Egyptian, a handsome man. The Egyptian had a spear in his hand, but Benaiah went down to him with a staff and snatched the spear out of the Egyptian's hand and killed him with his own spear.
2 Samuel 23:22 These things did Benaiah the son of Jehoiada, and won a name beside the three mighty men.
2 Samuel 23:23 He was renowned among the thirty, but he did not attain to the three. And David set him over his bodyguard.
2 Samuel 23:24  Asahel the brother of Joab was one of the thirty; Elhanan the son of Dodo of Bethlehem,
2 Samuel 23:25  Shammah of Harod, Elika of Harod,
2 Samuel 23:26 Helez the Paltite, Ira the son of Ikkesh of Tekoa,
2 Samuel 23:27 Abiezer the Hushathite,
2 Samuel 23:28 Zalmon of Netophah,
2 Samuel 23:29 Heleb the son of Baanah Gibeah of the people of Benjamin,
2 Samuel 23:30 Benaiah Gaash,
2 Samuel 23:31 Abi-albon the Arbathite, Azmaveth of Bahurim,
2 Samuel 23:32 Eliahba the Shaalbonite, the sons of Jashen, Jonathan,
2 Samuel 23:33  Shammah the Hararite, Ahiam the son of Sharar the Hararite,
2 Samuel 23:34 Eliphelet the son of Ahasbai Ahithophel the Gilonite,
2 Samuel 23:35 Hezro of Carmel, Paarai the Arbite,
2 Samuel 23:36 Igal the son of Nathan of Zobah, Bani the Gadite,
2 Samuel 23:37 Zelek the Ammonite, Naharai of Beeroth, the armor-bearer of Joab the son of Zeruiah,
2 Samuel 23:38  Ithrite, Gareb the Ithrite,
2 Samuel 23:39  Uriah the Hittite: thirty-seven in all.
2 Samuel 24:1  “Go, number Israel and Judah.”
2 Samuel 24:2 So the king said to Joab, the commander of the army, from Dan to Beersheba, and number the people, that I may know the number of the people.”
2 Samuel 24:3 But Joab said to the king, “May the LORD your God add to the people a hundred times as many as they are, while the eyes of my lord the king still see it, but why does my lord the king delight in this thing?”
2 Samuel 24:4 But the king's word prevailed against Joab and the commanders of the army. So Joab and the commanders of the army went out from the presence of the king to number the people of Israel.
2 Samuel 24:5 They crossed the Jordan and began from Jazer.
2 Samuel 24:6 Then they came to Gilead, and to Kadesh in the land of the Hittites; Sidon,
2 Samuel 24:7 and came to the fortress of Tyre and to all the cities of the Canaanites; and they went out to the Negeb of Judah at Beersheba.
2 Samuel 24:8 So when they had gone through all the land, they came to Jerusalem at the end of nine months and twenty days.
2 Samuel 24:9 And Joab gave the sum of the numbering of the people to the king: in Israel there were 800,000 valiant men who drew the sword, and the men of Judah were 500,000.
2 Samuel 24:10 But very foolishly.”
2 Samuel 24:11 And when David arose in the morning, the word of the LORD came to seer, saying,
2 Samuel 24:12 “Go and say to David, ‘Thus says the LORD, Three things I offer  you. Choose one of them, that I may do it to you.’”
2 Samuel 24:13 So Gad came to David and told him, and said to him, “Shall  years of famine come to you in your land? Or will you flee three months before your foes while they pursue you? Or shall there be three days' pestilence in your land? Now consider, and decide what answer I shall return to him who sent me.”
2 Samuel 24:14 Then David said to Gad, “I am in great distress. Let us fall into the hand of the LORD, for his mercy is great; but let me not fall into the hand of man.”
2 Samuel 24:15  Dan to Beersheba 70,000 men.
2 Samuel 24:16 And when Araunah the Jebusite.
2 Samuel 24:17 Then David spoke to the LORD when he saw the angel who was striking the people, and said, “Behold, I have sinned, and I have done wickedly. But these sheep, what have they done? Please let your hand be against me and against my father's house.”
2 Samuel 24:18 And Gad came that day to David and said to him, “Go up, raise an altar to the LORD on the threshing floor of Araunah the Jebusite.”
2 Samuel 24:19 So David went up at Gad's word, as the LORD commanded.
2 Samuel 24:20 And when Araunah looked down, he saw the king and his servants coming on toward him. And Araunah went out and paid homage to the king with his face to the ground.
2 Samuel 24:21 And Araunah said, “Why has my lord the king come to his servant?” David said, “To buy the threshing floor from you, in order to build an altar to the LORD, that the plague may be averted from the people.”
2 Samuel 24:22 Then Araunah said to David, “Let my lord the king take and offer up what seems good to him. Here are the oxen for the burnt offering and the threshing sledges and the yokes of the oxen for the wood.
2 Samuel 24:23 All this, O king, Araunah gives to the king.” And Araunah said to the king, “May the LORD your God accept you.”
2 Samuel 24:24 But the king said to Araunah, “No, but I will buy it from you for a price. I will not offer burnt offerings to the LORD my God that cost me nothing.” So David bought the threshing floor and the oxen for fifty shekels  of silver.
2 Samuel 24:25 And David built there an altar to the LORD and offered burnt offerings and peace offerings. So the LORD responded to the plea for the land, and the plague was averted from Israel.
1 Kings 1:1 Now King David was old and advanced in years. And although they covered him with clothes, he could not get warm.
1 Kings 1:2 Therefore his servants said to him, “Let a young woman be sought for my lord the king, and let her wait on the king and be in his service. Let her lie in your arms,  that my lord the king may be warm.”
1 Kings 1:3 So they sought for a beautiful young woman throughout all the territory of Israel, and found Abishag the Shunammite, and brought her to the king.
1 Kings 1:4 The young woman was very beautiful, and she was of service to the king and attended to him, but the king knew her not.
1 Kings 1:5 Now And he prepared for himself chariots and horsemen, and fifty men to run before him.
1 Kings 1:6 His father had never at any time displeased him by asking, “Why have you done thus and so?” He was also a very handsome man, and he was born next after Absalom.
1 Kings 1:7 He conferred with Abiathar the priest. And they followed Adonijah and helped him.
1 Kings 1:8 But David's mighty men were not with Adonijah.
1 Kings 1:9 Adonijah sacrificed sheep, oxen, and fattened cattle by the Serpent's Stone, which is beside En-rogel, and he invited all his brothers, the king's sons, and all the royal officials of Judah,
1 Kings 1:10 but he did not invite Nathan the prophet or Benaiah or the mighty men or Solomon his brother.
1 Kings 1:11 Then Nathan said to Bathsheba the mother of Solomon, “Have you not heard that Adonijah the son of Haggith has become king and David our lord does not know it?
1 Kings 1:12 Now therefore come, let me give you advice, that you may save your own life and the life of your son Solomon.
1 Kings 1:13 Go in at once to King David, and say to him, ‘Did you not, my lord the king, swear to your servant, saying, “Solomon your son shall reign after me, and he shall sit on my throne”? Why then is Adonijah king?’
1 Kings 1:14 Then while you are still speaking with the king, I also will come in after you and confirm  your words.”
1 Kings 1:15 So Bathsheba went to the king in his chamber (now the king was very old, and Abishag the Shunammite was attending to the king).
1 Kings 1:16 Bathsheba bowed and paid homage to the king, and the king said, “What do you desire?”
1 Kings 1:17 She said to him, “My lord, you swore to your servant by the LORD your God, saying, ‘Solomon your son shall reign after me, and he shall sit on my throne.’
1 Kings 1:18 And now, behold, Adonijah is king, although you, my lord the king, do not know it.
1 Kings 1:19  Solomon your servant he has not invited.
1 Kings 1:20 And now, my lord the king, the eyes of all Israel are on you, to tell them who shall sit on the throne of my lord the king after him.
1 Kings 1:21 Otherwise it will come to pass, when my lord the king sleeps with his fathers, that I and my son Solomon will be counted offenders.”
1 Kings 1:22 While she was still speaking with the king, Nathan the prophet came in.
1 Kings 1:23 And they told the king, “Here is Nathan the prophet.” And when he came in before the king, he bowed before the king, with his face to the ground.
1 Kings 1:24 And Nathan said, “My lord the king, have you said, ‘Adonijah shall reign after me, and he shall sit on my throne’?
1 Kings 1:25 For he has gone down this day and ‘Long live King Adonijah!’
1 Kings 1:26  But me, your servant, and Zadok the priest, and Benaiah the son of Jehoiada, and your servant Solomon he has not invited.
1 Kings 1:27 Has this thing been brought about by my lord the king and you have not told your servants who should sit on the throne of my lord the king after him?”
1 Kings 1:28 Then King David answered, “Call Bathsheba to me.” So she came into the king's presence and stood before the king.
1 Kings 1:29 And the king swore, saying, “As the LORD lives, who has redeemed my soul out of every adversity,
1 Kings 1:30  as I swore to you by the LORD, the God of Israel, saying, ‘Solomon your son shall reign after me, and he shall sit on my throne in my place,’ even so will I do this day.”
1 Kings 1:31 Then Bathsheba bowed with her face to the ground and paid homage to the king and said, “May my lord King David live forever!”
1 Kings 1:32 King David said, “Call to me Zadok the priest, Nathan the prophet, and Benaiah the son of Jehoiada.” So they came before the king.
1 Kings 1:33 And the king said to them, “Take with you Gihon.
1 Kings 1:34 And let Zadok the priest and Nathan the prophet there ‘Long live King Solomon!’
1 Kings 1:35 You shall then come up after him, and he shall come and sit on my throne, for he shall be king in my place. And I have appointed him to be ruler over Israel and over Judah.”
1 Kings 1:36 And Benaiah the son of Jehoiada answered the king, “Amen! May the LORD, the God of my lord the king, say so.
1 Kings 1:37  and make his throne greater than the throne of my lord King David.”
1 Kings 1:38 So Zadok the priest, Nathan the prophet, and Benaiah the son of Jehoiada, and the Cherethites and the Pelethites went down and had Solomon ride on King David's mule and brought him to Gihon.
1 Kings 1:39 There Zadok the priest took the horn of “Long live King Solomon!”
1 Kings 1:40 And all the people went up after him, playing on pipes, and rejoicing with great joy, so that the earth was split by their noise.
1 Kings 1:41 Adonijah and all the guests who were with him heard it as they finished feasting. And when Joab heard the sound of the trumpet, he said, “What does this uproar in the city mean?”
1 Kings 1:42 While he was still speaking, behold, for you are a worthy man and bring good news.”
1 Kings 1:43 Jonathan answered Adonijah, “No, for our lord King David has made Solomon king,
1 Kings 1:44 and the king has sent with him Zadok the priest, Nathan the prophet, and Benaiah the son of Jehoiada, and the Cherethites and the Pelethites. And they had him ride on the king's mule.
1 Kings 1:45 And Zadok the priest and Nathan the prophet have anointed him king at Gihon, and they have gone up from there rejoicing, so that the city is in an uproar. This is the noise that you have heard.
1 Kings 1:46  Solomon sits on the royal throne.
1 Kings 1:47 Moreover, the king's servants came to congratulate our lord King David, saying, bowed himself on the bed.
1 Kings 1:48 And the king also said, ‘Blessed be the LORD, the God of Israel,  to sit on my throne this day, my own eyes seeing it.’”
1 Kings 1:49 Then all the guests of Adonijah trembled and rose, and each went his own way.
1 Kings 1:50 And Adonijah feared Solomon. So he arose and went the horns of the altar.
1 Kings 1:51 Then it was told Solomon, “Behold, Adonijah fears King Solomon, for behold, he has laid hold of the horns of the altar, saying, ‘Let King Solomon swear to me first that he will not put his servant to death with the sword.’”
1 Kings 1:52 And Solomon said, “If he will show himself a worthy man, not one of his hairs shall fall to the earth, but if wickedness is found in him, he shall die.”
1 Kings 1:53 So King Solomon sent, and they brought him down from the altar. And he came and paid homage to King Solomon, and Solomon said to him, “Go to your house.”
1 Kings 2:1  When David's time to die drew near, he commanded Solomon his son, saying,
1 Kings 2:2  Be strong, and show yourself a man,
1 Kings 2:3 and keep the charge of the LORD your God, walking in his ways and keeping his statutes, his commandments, his rules, and his testimonies, as it is written in the Law of Moses, that you may prosper in all that you do and wherever you turn,
1 Kings 2:4 that the LORD may  a man on the throne of Israel.’
1 Kings 2:5 “Moreover, you also know what Joab the son of Zeruiah  waist and on the sandals on his feet.
1 Kings 2:6 Act therefore according to your wisdom, but do not let his gray head go down to Sheol in peace.
1 Kings 2:7 But deal loyally with the sons of  they met me when I fled from Absalom your brother.
1 Kings 2:8 And there is also with you But when he came down to meet me at the Jordan, I swore to him by the LORD, saying, ‘I will not put you to death with the sword.’
1 Kings 2:9 Now therefore do not hold him guiltless, bring his gray head down with blood to Sheol.”
1 Kings 2:10  the city of David.
1 Kings 2:11 And the time that David reigned over Israel was forty years. He reigned seven years in Hebron and thirty-three years in Jerusalem.
1 Kings 2:12  So Solomon sat on the throne of David his father, and his kingdom was firmly established.
1 Kings 2:13 Then Adonijah the son of Haggith came to Bathsheba the mother of Solomon. And she said, “Do you come peacefully?” He said, “Peacefully.”
1 Kings 2:14 Then he said, “I have something to say to you.” She said, “Speak.”
1 Kings 2:15 He said, “You know that for it was his from the LORD.
1 Kings 2:16 And now I have one request to make of you; do not refuse me.” She said to him, “Speak.”
1 Kings 2:17 And he said, “Please ask King Solomon — he will not refuse you — to give me Abishag the Shunammite as my wife.”
1 Kings 2:18 Bathsheba said, “Very well; I will speak for you to the king.”
1 Kings 2:19 So Bathsheba went to King Solomon to speak to him on behalf of Adonijah. And the king rose to meet her and bowed down to her. Then he sat on his throne and had a seat brought for the king's mother, and she sat on his right.
1 Kings 2:20 Then she said, “I have one small request to make of you; do not refuse me.” And the king said to her, “Make your request, my mother, for I will not refuse you.”
1 Kings 2:21 She said, “Let Abishag the Shunammite be given to Adonijah your brother as his wife.”
1 Kings 2:22 King Solomon answered his mother, “And why do you ask  the priest and Joab the son of Zeruiah.”
1 Kings 2:23 Then King Solomon swore by the LORD, saying, “God do so to me and more also if this word does not cost Adonijah his life!
1 Kings 2:24 Now therefore as he promised, Adonijah shall be put to death today.”
1 Kings 2:25 So King Solomon sent Benaiah the son of Jehoiada, and he struck him down, and he died.
1 Kings 2:26 And to Abiathar the priest the king said, “Go to and because you shared in all my father's affliction.”
1 Kings 2:27  the word of the LORD that he had spoken concerning the house of Eli in Shiloh.
1 Kings 2:28 When the news came to Joab — for Joab horns of the altar.
1 Kings 2:29 And when it was told King Solomon, “Joab has fled to the tent of the LORD, and behold, he is beside the altar,” Solomon sent Benaiah the son of Jehoiada, saying, “Go, strike him down.”
1 Kings 2:30 So Benaiah came to the tent of the LORD and said to him, “The king commands, ‘Come out.’” But he said, “No, I will die here.” Then Benaiah brought the king word again, saying, “Thus said Joab, and thus he answered me.”
1 Kings 2:31 The king replied to him, and thus take away from me and from my father's house the guilt for the blood that Joab shed without cause.
1 Kings 2:32 The LORD will Amasa the son of Jether, commander of the army of Judah.
1 Kings 2:33  So shall their blood come back on the head of Joab and on the head of his descendants forever. But for David and for his descendants and for his house and for his throne there shall be peace from the LORD forevermore.”
1 Kings 2:34 Then Benaiah the son of Jehoiada went up and struck him down and put him to death. And he was buried in his own house in the wilderness.
1 Kings 2:35  in the place of Abiathar.
1 Kings 2:36 Then the king sent and summoned Shimei and said to him, “Build yourself a house in Jerusalem and dwell there, and do not go out from there to any place whatever.
1 Kings 2:37 For on the day you go out and cross Your blood shall be on your own head.”
1 Kings 2:38 And Shimei said to the king, “What you say is good; as my lord the king has said, so will your servant do.” So Shimei lived in Jerusalem many days.
1 Kings 2:39 But it happened at the end of three years that two of Shimei's servants ran away to Achish, son of Maacah, king of Gath. And when it was told Shimei, “Behold, your servants are in Gath,”
1 Kings 2:40 Shimei arose and saddled a donkey and went to Gath to Achish to seek his servants. Shimei went and brought his servants from Gath.
1 Kings 2:41 And when Solomon was told that Shimei had gone from Jerusalem to Gath and returned,
1 Kings 2:42 the king sent and summoned Shimei and said to him, “Did I not make you swear by the LORD and solemnly warn you, saying, ‘Know for certain that on the day you go out and go to any place whatever, you shall die’? And you said to me, ‘What you say is good; I will obey.’
1 Kings 2:43 Why then have you not kept your oath to the LORD and the commandment with which I commanded you?”
1 Kings 2:44 The king also said to Shimei, “You know in your own heart bring back your harm on your own head.
1 Kings 2:45 But King Solomon shall be blessed, and the throne of David shall be established before the LORD forever.”
1 Kings 2:46 Then the king commanded Benaiah the son of Jehoiada, and he went out and struck him down, and he died. So the kingdom was established in the hand of Solomon.
1 Kings 3:1  and the wall around Jerusalem.
1 Kings 3:2  The people were sacrificing at the high places, however, because no house had yet been built for the name of the LORD.
1 Kings 3:3 Solomon walking in the statutes of David his father, only he sacrificed and made offerings at the high places.
1 Kings 3:4 And the king went to Gibeon to sacrifice there, for that was the great high place. Solomon used to offer a thousand burnt offerings on that altar.
1 Kings 3:5  in a dream by night, and God said, “Ask what I shall give you.”
1 Kings 3:6 And Solomon said, “You have shown great and steadfast love to your servant David my father, because have given him a son to sit on his throne this day.
1 Kings 3:7 And now, O LORD my God, how to go out or come in.
1 Kings 3:8  too many to be numbered or counted for multitude.
1 Kings 3:9  discern between good and evil, for who is able to govern this your great people?”
1 Kings 3:10 It pleased the Lord that Solomon had asked this.
1 Kings 3:11 And God said to him, “Because you have asked this, and have not asked for yourself long life or riches or the life of your enemies, but have asked for yourself understanding to discern what is right,
1 Kings 3:12 behold, I give you a wise and discerning mind, so that none like you has been before you and none like you shall arise after you.
1 Kings 3:13  both riches and honor, so that no other king shall compare with you, all your days.
1 Kings 3:14 And if you will walk in my ways, keeping my statutes and my commandments, I will lengthen your days.”
1 Kings 3:15 And Solomon awoke, and behold, it was a dream. Then he came to Jerusalem and stood before the ark of the covenant of the Lord, and offered up burnt offerings and peace offerings, and made a feast for all his servants.
1 Kings 3:16 Then two prostitutes came to the king and stood before him.
1 Kings 3:17 The one woman said, “Oh, my lord, this woman and I live in the same house, and I gave birth to a child while she was in the house.
1 Kings 3:18 Then on the third day after I gave birth, this woman also gave birth. And we were alone. There was no one else with us in the house; only we two were in the house.
1 Kings 3:19 And this woman's son died in the night, because she lay on him.
1 Kings 3:20 And she arose at midnight and took my son from beside me, while your servant slept, and laid him at her breast, and laid her dead son at my breast.
1 Kings 3:21 When I rose in the morning to nurse my child, behold, he was dead. But when I looked at him closely in the morning, behold, he was not the child that I had borne.”
1 Kings 3:22 But the other woman said, “No, the living child is mine, and the dead child is yours.” The first said, “No, the dead child is yours, and the living child is mine.” Thus they spoke before the king.
1 Kings 3:23 Then the king said, “The one says, ‘This is my son that is alive, and your son is dead’; and the other says, ‘No; but your son is dead, and my son is the living one.’”
1 Kings 3:24 And the king said, “Bring me a sword.” So a sword was brought before the king.
1 Kings 3:25 And the king said, “Divide the living child in two, and give half to the one and half to the other.”
1 Kings 3:26 Then the woman whose son was alive said to the king, because her heart yearned for her son, “Oh, my lord, give her the living child, and by no means put him to death.” But the other said, “He shall be neither mine nor yours; divide him.”
1 Kings 3:27 Then the king answered and said, “Give the living child to the first woman, and by no means put him to death; she is his mother.”
1 Kings 3:28 And all Israel heard of the judgment that the king had rendered, and they stood in awe of the king, because they perceived that the wisdom of God was in him to do justice.
1 Kings 4:1 King Solomon was king over all Israel,
1 Kings 4:2 and these were his high officials: Azariah the son of Zadok was the priest;
1 Kings 4:3 Elihoreph and Ahijah the sons of Shisha were secretaries; Jehoshaphat the son of Ahilud was recorder;
1 Kings 4:4  Zadok and Abiathar were priests;
1 Kings 4:5 Azariah the son of Nathan was over king's friend;
1 Kings 4:6 Ahishar was in charge of the palace; and the forced labor.
1 Kings 4:7 Solomon had twelve officers over all Israel, who provided food for the king and his household. Each man had to make provision for one month in the year.
1 Kings 4:8 These were their names: Ben-hur, in the hill country of Ephraim;
1 Kings 4:9 Ben-deker, in Makaz, Shaalbim, Beth-shemesh, and Elonbeth-hanan;
1 Kings 4:10 Ben-hesed, in Arubboth (to him belonged Socoh and all the land of Hepher);
1 Kings 4:11 Ben-abinadab, in all Naphath-dor (he had Taphath the daughter of Solomon as his wife);
1 Kings 4:12 Baana the son of Ahilud, in Beth-shean that is beside Zarethan below Jezreel, and from Beth-shean to Abel-meholah, as far as the other side of Jokmeam;
1 Kings 4:13 Ben-geber, the region of Argob, which is in Bashan, sixty great cities with walls and bronze bars);
1 Kings 4:14 Ahinadab the son of Iddo, in Mahanaim;
1 Kings 4:15 Ahimaaz, in Naphtali (he had taken Basemath the daughter of Solomon as his wife);
1 Kings 4:16 Baana the son of Hushai, in Asher and Bealoth;
1 Kings 4:17 Jehoshaphat the son of Paruah, in Issachar;
1 Kings 4:18  Shimei the son of Ela, in Benjamin;
1 Kings 4:19 Geber the son of Uri, in the land of Gilead, the country of Sihon king of the Amorites and of Og king of Bashan. And there was one governor who was over the land.
1 Kings 4:20 Judah and Israel were as many as the sand by the sea. They ate and drank and were happy.
1 Kings 4:21  They brought tribute and served Solomon all the days of his life.
1 Kings 4:22 Solomon's provision for one day was thirty cors  of fine flour and sixty cors of meal,
1 Kings 4:23 ten fat oxen, and twenty pasture-fed cattle, a hundred sheep, besides deer, gazelles, roebucks, and fattened fowl.
1 Kings 4:24 For he had dominion over all the region west of the Euphrates And he had peace on all sides around him.
1 Kings 4:25 And Judah and Israel every man under his vine and under his fig tree, all the days of Solomon.
1 Kings 4:26   stalls of horses for his chariots, and 12,000 horsemen.
1 Kings 4:27 And those officers supplied provisions for King Solomon, and for all who came to King Solomon's table, each one in his month. They let nothing be lacking.
1 Kings 4:28 Barley also and straw for the horses and swift steeds they brought to the place where it was required, each according to his duty.
1 Kings 4:29  like the sand on the seashore,
1 Kings 4:30 so that Solomon's wisdom surpassed the wisdom of all and all the wisdom of Egypt.
1 Kings 4:31 For he was wiser than all other men, wiser than Ethan the Ezrahite, and Heman, Calcol, and Darda, the sons of Mahol, and his fame was in all the surrounding nations.
1 Kings 4:32  and his songs were 1,005.
1 Kings 4:33 He spoke of trees, from the cedar that is in Lebanon to the hyssop that grows out of the wall. He spoke also of beasts, and of birds, and of reptiles, and of fish.
1 Kings 4:34 And people of all nations came to hear the wisdom of Solomon, and from all the kings of the earth, who had heard of his wisdom.
1 Kings 5:1  for Hiram always loved David.
1 Kings 5:2 And Solomon sent word to Hiram,
1 Kings 5:3  because of the warfare with which his enemies surrounded him, until the LORD put them under the soles of his feet.
1 Kings 5:4  But now the LORD my God has given me rest on every side. There is neither adversary nor misfortune.
1 Kings 5:5 And so I intend to build a house for the name of the LORD my God, as the LORD said to David my father, ‘Your son, whom I will set on your throne in your place, shall build the house for my name.’
1 Kings 5:6 Now therefore command that cedars of Lebanon be cut for me. And my servants will join your servants, and I will pay you for your servants such wages as you set, for you know that there is no one among us who knows how to cut timber like the Sidonians.”
1 Kings 5:7 As soon as Hiram heard the words of Solomon, he rejoiced greatly and said, “Blessed be the LORD this day, who has given to David a wise son to be over this great people.”
1 Kings 5:8 And Hiram sent to Solomon, saying, “I have heard the message that you have sent to me. I am ready to do all you desire in the matter of cedar and cypress timber.
1 Kings 5:9 My servants shall bring it down to the sea from Lebanon, and I will make it into rafts to go by sea to the place you direct. And I will have them broken up there, and you shall receive it. And you shall meet my wishes by providing food for my household.”
1 Kings 5:10 So Hiram supplied Solomon with all the timber of cedar and cypress that he desired,
1 Kings 5:11 while Solomon gave Hiram 20,000 cors  cors of beaten oil. Solomon gave this to Hiram year by year.
1 Kings 5:12 And the LORD gave Solomon wisdom, as he promised him. And there was peace between Hiram and Solomon, and the two of them made a treaty.
1 Kings 5:13 King Solomon drafted forced labor out of all Israel, and the draft numbered 30,000 men.
1 Kings 5:14 And he sent them to Lebanon, 10,000 a month in shifts. They would be a month in Lebanon and two months at home. Adoniram was in charge of the draft.
1 Kings 5:15 Solomon also had 70,000 burden-bearers and 80,000 stonecutters in the hill country,
1 Kings 5:16 besides Solomon's 3,300 who had charge of the people who carried on the work.
1 Kings 5:17 At the king's command they quarried out great, costly stones in order to lay the foundation of the house with dressed stones.
1 Kings 5:18 So Solomon's builders and Hiram's builders and the men of Gebal did the cutting and prepared the timber and the stone to build the house.
1 Kings 6:1  he began to build the house of the LORD.
1 Kings 6:2   long, twenty cubits wide, and thirty cubits high.
1 Kings 6:3 The vestibule in front of the nave of the house was twenty cubits long, equal to the width of the house, and ten cubits deep in front of the house.
1 Kings 6:4 And
1 Kings 6:5  side chambers all around.
1 Kings 6:6 The lowest story  was five cubits broad, the middle one was six cubits broad, and the third was seven cubits broad. For around the outside of the house he made offsets on the wall in order that the supporting beams should not be inserted into the walls of the house.
1 Kings 6:7 When the house was built, it was with stone prepared at the quarry, so that neither hammer nor axe nor any tool of iron was heard in the house while it was being built.
1 Kings 6:8 The entrance for the lowest  story was on the south side of the house, and one went up by stairs to the middle story, and from the middle story to the third.
1 Kings 6:9  So he built the house and finished it, and he made the ceiling of the house of beams and planks of cedar.
1 Kings 6:10 He built the structure against the whole house, five cubits high, and it was joined to the house with timbers of cedar.
1 Kings 6:11 Now the word of the LORD came to Solomon,
1 Kings 6:12 “Concerning this house that you are building, which I spoke to David your father.
1 Kings 6:13 And and will not forsake my people Israel.”
1 Kings 6:14  So Solomon built the house and finished it.
1 Kings 6:15 He lined the walls of the house on the inside with boards of cedar. From the floor of the house to the walls of the ceiling, he covered them on the inside with wood, and he covered the floor of the house with boards of cypress.
1 Kings 6:16  the Most Holy Place.
1 Kings 6:17 The house, that is, the nave in front of the inner sanctuary, was forty cubits long.
1 Kings 6:18 The cedar within the house was carved in the form of gourds and open flowers. All was cedar; no stone was seen.
1 Kings 6:19 The inner sanctuary he prepared in the innermost part of the house, to set there the ark of the covenant of the LORD.
1 Kings 6:20 The inner sanctuary  an altar of cedar.
1 Kings 6:21 And Solomon overlaid the inside of the house with pure gold, and he drew chains of gold across, in front of the inner sanctuary, and overlaid it with gold.
1 Kings 6:22 And he overlaid the whole house with gold, until all the house was finished. Also the whole altar that belonged to the inner sanctuary he overlaid with gold.
1 Kings 6:23  he made two cherubim of olivewood, each ten cubits high.
1 Kings 6:24 Five cubits was the length of one wing of the cherub, and five cubits the length of the other wing of the cherub; it was ten cubits from the tip of one wing to the tip of the other.
1 Kings 6:25 The other cherub also measured ten cubits; both cherubim had the same measure and the same form.
1 Kings 6:26 The height of one cherub was ten cubits, and so was that of the other cherub.
1 Kings 6:27 He put the cherubim in the innermost part of the house. And the wings of the cherubim were spread out so that a wing of one touched the one wall, and a wing of the other cherub touched the other wall; their other wings touched each other in the middle of the house.
1 Kings 6:28 And he overlaid the cherubim with gold.
1 Kings 6:29 Around all the walls of the house he carved engraved figures of cherubim and palm trees and open flowers, in the inner and outer rooms.
1 Kings 6:30 The floor of the house he overlaid with gold in the inner and outer rooms.
1 Kings 6:31 For the entrance to the inner sanctuary he made doors of olivewood; the lintel and the doorposts were five-sided.
1 Kings 6:32 He covered the two doors of olivewood with carvings of cherubim, palm trees, and open flowers. He overlaid them with gold and spread gold on the cherubim and on the palm trees.
1 Kings 6:33 So also he made for the entrance to the nave doorposts of olivewood, in the form of a square,
1 Kings 6:34 and two doors of cypress wood. The two leaves of the one door were folding, and the two leaves of the other door were folding.
1 Kings 6:35 On them he carved cherubim and palm trees and open flowers, and he overlaid them with gold evenly applied on the carved work.
1 Kings 6:36  He built the inner court with three courses of cut stone and one course of cedar beams.
1 Kings 6:37  In the fourth year the foundation of the house of the LORD was laid, in the month of Ziv.
1 Kings 6:38 And in the eleventh year, in the month of Bul, which is the eighth month, the house was finished in all its parts, and according to all its specifications. He was seven years in building it.
1 Kings 7:1 Solomon was building his own house thirteen years, and he finished his entire house.
1 Kings 7:2 He built  rows of cedar pillars, with cedar beams on the pillars.
1 Kings 7:3 And it was covered with cedar above the chambers that were on the forty-five pillars, fifteen in each row.
1 Kings 7:4 There were window frames in three rows, and window opposite window in three tiers.
1 Kings 7:5 All the doorways and windows  had square frames, and window was opposite window in three tiers.
1 Kings 7:6 And he made a canopy in front of them.
1 Kings 7:7 And he made the Hall of the Throne where he was to pronounce judgment, even the Hall of Judgment.
1 Kings 7:8 His own house where he was to dwell, in the other court back of the hall, was of like workmanship. Solomon also made a house like this hall for Pharaoh's daughter whom he had taken in marriage.
1 Kings 7:9 All these were made of costly stones, cut according to measure, sawed with saws, back and front, even from the foundation to the coping, and from the outside to the great court.
1 Kings 7:10 The foundation was of costly stones, huge stones, stones of eight and ten cubits.
1 Kings 7:11 And above were costly stones, cut according to measurement, and cedar.
1 Kings 7:12  the vestibule of the house.
1 Kings 7:13 And King Solomon sent and brought Hiram from Tyre.
1 Kings 7:14 He was the son of a widow of the tribe of Naphtali, and his father was a man of Tyre, a worker in bronze. And he was full of wisdom, understanding, and skill for making any work in bronze. He came to King Solomon and did all his work.
1 Kings 7:15
1 Kings 7:16 He also made two capitals of cast bronze to set on the tops of the pillars. The height of the one capital was five cubits, and the height of the other capital was five cubits.
1 Kings 7:17 There were lattices of checker work with wreaths of chain work for the capitals on the tops of the pillars, a lattice  for the one capital and a lattice for the other capital.
1 Kings 7:18 Likewise he made pomegranates  in two rows around the one latticework to cover the capital that was on the top of the pillar, and he did the same with the other capital.
1 Kings 7:19 Now the capitals that were on the tops of the pillars in the vestibule were of lily-work, four cubits.
1 Kings 7:20 The capitals were on the two pillars and also above the rounded projection which was beside the latticework. There were two hundred pomegranates in two rows all around, and so with the other capital.
1 Kings 7:21  He set up the pillars at the vestibule of the temple. He set up the pillar on the south and called its name Jachin, and he set up the pillar on the north and called its name Boaz.
1 Kings 7:22 And on the tops of the pillars was lily-work. Thus the work of the pillars was finished.
1 Kings 7:23  the sea of cast metal. It was round, ten cubits from brim to brim, and five cubits high, and a line of thirty cubits measured its circumference.
1 Kings 7:24 Under its brim were gourds, for ten cubits, compassing the sea all around. The gourds were in two rows, cast with it when it was cast.
1 Kings 7:25 It stood on twelve oxen, three facing north, three facing west, three facing south, and three facing east. The sea was set on them, and all their rear parts were inward.
1 Kings 7:26 Its thickness was a handbreadth,
1 Kings 7:27 He also made the ten stands of bronze. Each stand was four cubits long, four cubits wide, and three cubits high.
1 Kings 7:28 This was the construction of the stands: they had panels, and the panels were set in the frames,
1 Kings 7:29 and on the panels that were set in the frames were lions, oxen, and cherubim. On the frames, both above and below the lions and oxen, there were wreaths of beveled work.
1 Kings 7:30 Moreover, each stand had four bronze wheels and axles of bronze, and at the four corners were supports for a basin. The supports were cast with wreaths at the side of each.
1 Kings 7:31 Its opening was within a crown that projected upward one cubit. Its opening was round, as a pedestal is made, a cubit and a half deep. At its opening there were carvings, and its panels were square, not round.
1 Kings 7:32 And the four wheels were underneath the panels. The axles of the wheels were of one piece with the stands, and the height of a wheel was a cubit and a half.
1 Kings 7:33 The wheels were made like a chariot wheel; their axles, their rims, their spokes, and their hubs were all cast.
1 Kings 7:34 There were four supports at the four corners of each stand. The supports were of one piece with the stands.
1 Kings 7:35 And on the top of the stand there was a round band half a cubit high; and on the top of the stand its stays and its panels were of one piece with it.
1 Kings 7:36 And on the surfaces of its stays and on its panels, he carved cherubim, lions, and palm trees, according to the space of each, with wreaths all around.
1 Kings 7:37 After this manner he made the ten stands. All of them were cast alike, of the same measure and the same form.
1 Kings 7:38 And he made ten basins of bronze. Each basin held forty baths, each basin measured four cubits, and there was a basin for each of the ten stands.
1 Kings 7:39 And he set the stands, five on the south side of the house, and five on the north side of the house. And he set the sea at the southeast corner of the house.
1 Kings 7:40  the pots, the shovels, and the basins. So Hiram finished all the work that he did for King Solomon on the house of the LORD:
1 Kings 7:41 the two pillars, the two bowls of the capitals that were on the tops of the pillars, and the two latticeworks to cover the two bowls of the capitals that were on the tops of the pillars;
1 Kings 7:42 and the four hundred pomegranates for the two latticeworks, two rows of pomegranates for each latticework, to cover the two bowls of the capitals that were on the pillars;
1 Kings 7:43 the ten stands, and the ten basins on the stands;
1 Kings 7:44 and the one sea, and the twelve oxen underneath the sea.
1 Kings 7:45 Now the pots, the shovels, and the basins, all these vessels in the house of the LORD, which Hiram made for King Solomon, were of burnished bronze.
1 Kings 7:46 In the plain of the Jordan the king cast them, in the clay ground between Zarethan.
1 Kings 7:47 And Solomon left all the vessels unweighed, because there were so many of them; the weight of the bronze was not ascertained.
1 Kings 7:48 So Solomon made all the vessels that were in the house of the LORD: the bread of the Presence,
1 Kings 7:49  the flowers, the lamps, and the tongs, of gold;
1 Kings 7:50 the cups, snuffers, basins, dishes for incense, and the Most Holy Place, and for the doors of the nave of the temple.
1 Kings 7:51 Thus all the work that King Solomon did on the house of the LORD was finished. And Solomon brought in the things that David his father had dedicated, the silver, the gold, and the vessels, and stored them in the treasuries of the house of the LORD.
1 Kings 8:1  the city of David, which is Zion.
1 Kings 8:2 And all the men of Israel assembled to King Solomon at the feast in the month Ethanim, which is the seventh month.
1 Kings 8:3 And all the elders of Israel came, and the priests took up the ark.
1 Kings 8:4 And they brought up the ark of the LORD, the tent of meeting, and all the holy vessels that were in the tent; the priests and the Levites brought them up.
1 Kings 8:5 And King Solomon and all the congregation of Israel, who had assembled before him, were with him before the ark, sacrificing so many sheep and oxen that they could not be counted or numbered.
1 Kings 8:6  the inner sanctuary of the house, in the Most Holy Place, underneath the wings of the cherubim.
1 Kings 8:7 For the cherubim spread out their wings over the place of the ark, so that the cherubim overshadowed the ark and its poles.
1 Kings 8:8  the inner sanctuary; but they could not be seen from outside. And they are there to this day.
1 Kings 8:9 There was nothing in the ark except the LORD made a covenant with the people of Israel, when they came out of the land of Egypt.
1 Kings 8:10 And when the priests came out of the Holy Place, a cloud filled the house of the LORD,
1 Kings 8:11 so that the priests could not stand to minister because of the cloud, for the glory of the LORD filled the house of the LORD.
1 Kings 8:12  in thick darkness.
1 Kings 8:13  a place for you to dwell in forever.”
1 Kings 8:14 Then the king turned around and blessed all the assembly of Israel, while all the assembly of Israel stood.
1 Kings 8:15 And he said, what he promised with his mouth to David my father, saying,
1 Kings 8:16  But I chose David to be over my people Israel.’
1 Kings 8:17  Now it was in the heart of David my father to build a house for the name of the LORD, the God of Israel.
1 Kings 8:18 But the LORD said to David my father, ‘Whereas it was in your heart to build a house for my name, you did well that it was in your heart.
1 Kings 8:19  Nevertheless, you shall not build the house, but your son who shall be born to you shall build the house for my name.’
1 Kings 8:20 Now the LORD has fulfilled his promise that he made. For I have risen in the place of David my father, and sit on the throne of Israel, as the LORD promised, and I have built the house for the name of the LORD, the God of Israel.
1 Kings 8:21 And there I have provided a place for the ark, in which is the covenant of the LORD that he made with our fathers, when he brought them out of the land of Egypt.”
1 Kings 8:22 Then Solomon spread out his hands toward heaven,
1 Kings 8:23 and said, “O LORD, God of Israel, keeping covenant and showing steadfast love to your servants who walk before you with all their heart;
1 Kings 8:24 you have kept with your servant David my father what you declared to him. You spoke with your mouth, and with your hand have fulfilled it this day.
1 Kings 8:25 Now therefore, O LORD, God of Israel, keep for your servant David my father what you have promised him, saying, ‘You shall not lack a man to sit before me on the throne of Israel, if only your sons pay close attention to their way, to walk before me as you have walked before me.’
1 Kings 8:26  Now therefore, O God of Israel, let your word be confirmed, which you have spoken to your servant David my father.
1 Kings 8:27 “But will God indeed dwell on the earth? Behold, heaven and the highest heaven cannot contain you; how much less this house that I have built!
1 Kings 8:28 Yet have regard to the prayer of your servant and to his plea, O LORD my God, listening to the cry and to the prayer that your servant prays before you this day,
1 Kings 8:29  ‘My name shall be there,’ that you may listen to the prayer that your servant offers toward this place.
1 Kings 8:30 And listen to the plea of your servant and of your people Israel, when they pray toward this place. And listen in heaven your dwelling place, and when you hear, forgive.
1 Kings 8:31 “If a man sins against his neighbor and is made to take an oath and comes and swears his oath before your altar in this house,
1 Kings 8:32 then hear in heaven and act and judge your servants, condemning the guilty by bringing his conduct on his own head, and vindicating the righteous by rewarding him according to his righteousness.
1 Kings 8:33  if they turn again to you and acknowledge your name and pray and plead with you in this house,
1 Kings 8:34 then hear in heaven and forgive the sin of your people Israel and bring them again to the land that you gave to their fathers.
1 Kings 8:35  “When heaven is shut up and there is no rain because they have sinned against you, if they pray toward this place and acknowledge your name and turn from their sin, when you afflict them,
1 Kings 8:36 then hear in heaven and forgive the sin of your servants, your people Israel, when the good way in which they should walk, and grant rain upon your land, which you have given to your people as an inheritance.
1 Kings 8:37   whatever plague, whatever sickness there is,
1 Kings 8:38 whatever prayer, whatever plea is made by any man or by all your people Israel, each knowing the affliction of his own heart and stretching out his hands toward this house,
1 Kings 8:39 then hear in heaven your dwelling place and forgive and act and render to each whose heart you know, according to all his ways (for you, you only, know the hearts of all the children of mankind),
1 Kings 8:40 that they may fear you all the days that they live in the land that you gave to our fathers.
1 Kings 8:41 “Likewise, when a foreigner, who is not of your people Israel, comes from a far country for your name's sake
1 Kings 8:42 (for they shall hear of your great name and your mighty hand, and of your outstretched arm), when he comes and prays toward this house,
1 Kings 8:43 hear in heaven your dwelling place and do according to all for which the foreigner calls to you, in order fear you, as do your people Israel, and that they may know that this house that I have built is called by your name.
1 Kings 8:44 “If your people go out to battle against their enemy, by whatever way you shall send them, and they pray to the LORD toward the city that you have chosen and the house that I have built for your name,
1 Kings 8:45 then hear in heaven their prayer and their plea, and maintain their cause.
1 Kings 8:46 “If they sin against you — to the land of the enemy, far off or near,
1 Kings 8:47 yet ‘We have sinned and have acted perversely and wickedly,’
1 Kings 8:48  toward their land, which you gave to their fathers, the city that you have chosen, and the house that I have built for your name,
1 Kings 8:49 then hear in heaven your dwelling place their prayer and their plea, and maintain their cause
1 Kings 8:50 and forgive your people who have sinned against you, and all their transgressions that they have committed against you, and grant them compassion in the sight of those who carried them captive, that they may have compassion on them
1 Kings 8:51 ( from the midst of the iron furnace).
1 Kings 8:52  Let your eyes be open to the plea of your servant and to the plea of your people Israel, giving ear to them whenever they call to you.
1 Kings 8:53 For you separated them from among all the peoples of the earth to be your heritage, as you declared through Moses your servant, when you brought our fathers out of Egypt, O Lord GOD.”
1 Kings 8:54  knelt with hands outstretched toward heaven.
1 Kings 8:55 And he stood and blessed all the assembly of Israel with a loud voice, saying,
1 Kings 8:56 “Blessed be the LORD who has given rest to his people Israel, according to all that he promised. Not one word has failed of all his good promise, which he spoke by Moses his servant.
1 Kings 8:57 The LORD our God be with us, as he was with our fathers. May he not leave us or forsake us,
1 Kings 8:58 that he may incline our hearts to him, to walk in all his ways and to keep his commandments, his statutes, and his rules, which he commanded our fathers.
1 Kings 8:59 Let these words of mine, with which I have pleaded before the LORD, be near to the LORD our God day and night, and may he maintain the cause of his servant and the cause of his people Israel, as each day requires,
1 Kings 8:60 that the LORD is God; there is no other.
1 Kings 8:61  Let your heart therefore be wholly true to the LORD our God, walking in his statutes and keeping his commandments, as at this day.”
1 Kings 8:62  the king, and all Israel with him, offered sacrifice before the LORD.
1 Kings 8:63 Solomon offered as peace offerings to the LORD 22,000 oxen and 120,000 sheep. So the king and all the people of Israel dedicated the house of the LORD.
1 Kings 8:64 The same day the king consecrated the middle of the court that was before the house of the LORD, for there he offered the burnt offering and the grain offering and the fat pieces of the peace offerings, because the bronze altar that was before the LORD was too small to receive the burnt offering and the grain offering and the fat pieces of the peace offerings.
1 Kings 8:65 So Solomon held
1 Kings 8:66 On the eighth day he sent the people away, and they blessed the king and went to their homes joyful and glad of heart for all the goodness that the LORD had shown to David his servant and to Israel his people.
1 Kings 9:1  all that Solomon desired to build,
1 Kings 9:2  the LORD appeared to Solomon a second time, as he had appeared to him at Gibeon.
1 Kings 9:3 And the LORD said to him, “I have heard your prayer and your plea, which you have made before me. I have consecrated this house that you have built, My eyes and my heart will be there for all time.
1 Kings 9:4 And as for you, if you will as David your father walked, with integrity of heart and uprightness, doing according to all that I have commanded you, and keeping my statutes and my rules,
1 Kings 9:5  then I will establish your royal throne over Israel forever, as I promised David your father, saying, ‘You shall not lack a man on the throne of Israel.’
1 Kings 9:6  But if you turn aside from following me, you or your children, and do not keep my commandments and my statutes that I have set before you, but go and serve other gods and worship them,
1 Kings 9:7  and Israel will become a proverb and a byword among all peoples.
1 Kings 9:8 And this house will become a heap of ruins. ‘Why has the LORD done thus to this land and to this house?’
1 Kings 9:9 Then they will say, ‘Because they abandoned the LORD their God who brought their fathers out of the land of Egypt and laid hold on other gods and worshiped them and served them. Therefore the LORD has brought all this disaster on them.’”
1 Kings 9:10  twenty years, in which Solomon had built the two houses, the house of the LORD and the king's house,
1 Kings 9:11 and Hiram king of Tyre had supplied Solomon with cedar and cypress timber and gold, as much as he desired, King Solomon gave to Hiram twenty cities in the land of Galilee.
1 Kings 9:12 But when Hiram came from Tyre to see the cities that Solomon had given him, they did not please him.
1 Kings 9:13 Therefore he said, “What kind of cities are these that you have given me, my brother?” So they are called the land of Cabul to this day.
1 Kings 9:14 Hiram had sent to the king 120 talents  of gold.
1 Kings 9:15 And this is the account of Megiddo and Gezer
1 Kings 9:16 (Pharaoh king of Egypt had gone up and captured Gezer and burned it with fire, and had killed his daughter, Solomon's wife;
1 Kings 9:17 so Solomon rebuilt Gezer) and Lower Beth-horon
1 Kings 9:18 and Baalath and Tamar in the wilderness, in the land of Judah,
1 Kings 9:19 and all the store cities that Solomon had, and desired to build in Jerusalem, in Lebanon, and in all the land of his dominion.
1 Kings 9:20 All the people who were left of the Amorites, the Hittites, the Perizzites, the Hivites, and the Jebusites, who were not of the people of Israel —
1 Kings 9:21  slaves, and so they are to this day.
1 Kings 9:22 But of the people of Israel Solomon made no slaves. They were the soldiers, they were his officials, his commanders, his captains, his chariot commanders and his horsemen.
1 Kings 9:23 These were the chief officers who were over Solomon's work: who had charge of the people who carried on the work.
1 Kings 9:24 But the Millo.
1 Kings 9:25 Three times a year Solomon used to offer up burnt offerings and peace offerings on the altar that he built to the LORD, making offerings with it  before the LORD. So he finished the house.
1 Kings 9:26 King Solomon built a fleet of ships at Ezion-geber, which is near Eloth on the shore of the Red Sea, in the land of Edom.
1 Kings 9:27 And Hiram sent with the fleet his servants, seamen who were familiar with the sea, together with the servants of Solomon.
1 Kings 9:28 And they went to Ophir and brought from there gold, 420 talents, and they brought it to King Solomon.
1 Kings 10:1  to test him with hard questions.
1 Kings 10:2 She came to Jerusalem with a very great retinue, with camels bearing spices and very much gold and precious stones. And when she came to Solomon, she told him all that was on her mind.
1 Kings 10:3 And Solomon answered all her questions; there was nothing hidden from the king that he could not explain to her.
1 Kings 10:4 And when the queen of Sheba had seen all the wisdom of Solomon, the house that he had built,
1 Kings 10:5 the food of his table, the seating of his officials, and the attendance of his servants, their clothing, his cupbearers, and his burnt offerings that he offered at the house of the LORD, there was no more breath in her.
1 Kings 10:6 And she said to the king, “The report was true that I heard in my own land of your words and of your wisdom,
1 Kings 10:7 but I did not believe the reports until I came and my own eyes had seen it. And behold, the half was not told me. Your wisdom and prosperity surpass the report that I heard.
1 Kings 10:8  Happy are your men! Happy are your servants, who continually stand before you and hear your wisdom!
1 Kings 10:9  that you may execute justice and righteousness.”
1 Kings 10:10   of gold, and a very great quantity of spices and precious stones. Never again came such an abundance of spices as these that the queen of Sheba gave to King Solomon.
1 Kings 10:11 Moreover, gold from Ophir, brought from Ophir a very great amount of almug wood and precious stones.
1 Kings 10:12 And the king made of the almug wood supports for the house of the LORD and for the king's house, also lyres and harps for the singers. No such almug wood has come or been seen to this day.
1 Kings 10:13 And King Solomon gave to the queen of Sheba all that she desired, whatever she asked besides what was given her by the bounty of King Solomon. So she turned and went back to her own land with her servants.
1 Kings 10:14  Now the weight of gold that came to Solomon in one year was 666 talents of gold,
1 Kings 10:15 besides that which came from the explorers and from the business of the merchants, and from all the kings of the west and from the governors of the land.
1 Kings 10:16 King Solomon made 200 large shields of beaten gold; 600 shekels  of gold went into each shield.
1 Kings 10:17 And he made 300 the House of the Forest of Lebanon.
1 Kings 10:18 The king also made a great ivory throne and overlaid it with the finest gold.
1 Kings 10:19 The throne had six steps, and the throne had a round top,  and on each side of the seat were armrests and two lions standing beside the armrests,
1 Kings 10:20 while twelve lions stood there, one on each end of a step on the six steps. The like of it was never made in any kingdom.
1 Kings 10:21 All King Solomon's drinking vessels were of gold, and all the vessels of the House of the Forest of Lebanon were of pure gold. None were of silver; silver was not considered as anything in the days of Solomon.
1 Kings 10:22 For the king had
1 Kings 10:23  Thus King Solomon excelled all the kings of the earth in riches and in wisdom.
1 Kings 10:24 And the whole earth sought the presence of Solomon to hear his wisdom, which God had put into his mind.
1 Kings 10:25 Every one of them brought his present, articles of silver and gold, garments, myrrh,  spices, horses, and mules, so much year by year.
1 Kings 10:26  chariot cities and with the king in Jerusalem.
1 Kings 10:27 And the king made silver as common in Jerusalem as stone, and he made cedar as plentiful as the sycamore of the Shephelah.
1 Kings 10:28 And Solomon's import of horses was from Egypt and Kue, and the king's traders received them from Kue at a price.
1 Kings 10:29 A chariot could be imported from Egypt for 600 shekels of silver and a horse for 150, and so through the king's traders they were exported to all the kings of the Hittites and the kings of Syria.
1 Kings 11:1 Now King Solomon loved many foreign women, along with the daughter of Pharaoh: Moabite, Ammonite, Edomite, Sidonian, and Hittite women,
1 Kings 11:2 from the nations concerning which the LORD had said to the people of Israel, “You shall not enter into marriage with them, neither shall they with you, for surely they will turn away your heart after their gods.” Solomon clung to these in love.
1 Kings 11:3 He had 700 wives, who were princesses, and 300 concubines. And his wives turned away his heart.
1 Kings 11:4 For when Solomon was old his wives turned away his heart after other gods, and as was the heart of David his father.
1 Kings 11:5 For Solomon went after Milcom the abomination of the Ammonites.
1 Kings 11:6 So Solomon did what was evil in the sight of the LORD and did not wholly follow the LORD, as David his father had done.
1 Kings 11:7 Then Solomon built a high place for Molech the abomination of the Ammonites, on the mountain east of Jerusalem.
1 Kings 11:8 And so he did for all his foreign wives, who made offerings and sacrificed to their gods.
1 Kings 11:9 And the LORD was angry with Solomon, because who had appeared to him twice
1 Kings 11:10 and had commanded him concerning this thing, that he should not go after other gods. But he did not keep what the LORD commanded.
1 Kings 11:11 Therefore the LORD said to Solomon, “Since this has been your practice and you have not kept my covenant and my statutes that I have commanded you, I will surely tear the kingdom from you and will give it to your servant.
1 Kings 11:12 Yet for the sake of David your father I will not do it in your days, but I will tear it out of the hand of your son.
1 Kings 11:13 However, that I have chosen.”
1 Kings 11:14 And the LORD raised up an adversary against Solomon, Hadad the Edomite. He was of the royal house in Edom.
1 Kings 11:15 For when David was in Edom, and Joab the commander of the army went up to bury the slain, he struck down every male in Edom
1 Kings 11:16 (for Joab and all Israel remained there six months, until he had cut off every male in Edom).
1 Kings 11:17 But Hadad fled to Egypt, together with certain Edomites of his father's servants, Hadad still being a little child.
1 Kings 11:18 They set out from Midian and came to Paran and took men with them from Paran and came to Egypt, to Pharaoh king of Egypt, who gave him a house and assigned him an allowance of food and gave him land.
1 Kings 11:19 And Hadad found great favor in the sight of Pharaoh, so that he gave him in marriage the sister of his own wife, the sister of Tahpenes the queen.
1 Kings 11:20 And the sister of Tahpenes bore him Genubath his son, whom Tahpenes weaned in Pharaoh's house. And Genubath was in Pharaoh's house among the sons of Pharaoh.
1 Kings 11:21 But when Hadad heard in Egypt that David slept with his fathers and that Joab the commander of the army was dead, Hadad said to Pharaoh, “Let me depart, that I may go to my own country.”
1 Kings 11:22 But Pharaoh said to him, “What have you lacked with me that you are now seeking to go to your own country?” And he said to him, “Only let me depart.”
1 Kings 11:23 God also raised up as an adversary to him, Rezon the son of Eliada, who had fled from his master Hadadezer king of Zobah.
1 Kings 11:24 And he gathered men about him and became leader of a marauding band, after the killing by David. And they went to Damascus and lived there and made him king in Damascus.
1 Kings 11:25 He was an adversary of Israel all the days of Solomon, doing harm as Hadad did. And he loathed Israel and reigned over Syria.
1 Kings 11:26  lifted up his hand against the king.
1 Kings 11:27 And this was the reason why he lifted up his hand against the king. Solomon built the Millo, and closed up the breach of the city of David his father.
1 Kings 11:28 The man Jeroboam was very able, and when Solomon saw that the young man was industrious he gave him charge over all the forced labor of the house of Joseph.
1 Kings 11:29 And at that time, when Jeroboam went out of Jerusalem, the prophet Ahijah the Shilonite found him on the road. Now Ahijah had dressed himself in a new garment, and the two of them were alone in the open country.
1 Kings 11:30 Then Ahijah laid hold of the new garment that was on him, and tore it into twelve pieces.
1 Kings 11:31 And he said to Jeroboam, “Take for yourself ten pieces, for thus says the LORD, the God of Israel, ‘Behold, I am about to tear the kingdom from the hand of Solomon and will give you ten tribes
1 Kings 11:32 (but the city that I have chosen out of all the tribes of Israel),
1 Kings 11:33 because they have and worshiped Ashtoreth the goddess of the Sidonians, Chemosh the god of Moab, and Milcom the god of the Ammonites, and they have not walked in my ways, doing what is right in my sight and keeping my statutes and my rules, as David his father did.
1 Kings 11:34 Nevertheless, I will not take the whole kingdom out of his hand, but I will make him ruler all the days of his life, for the sake of David my servant whom I chose, who kept my commandments and my statutes.
1 Kings 11:35  But I will take the kingdom out of his son's hand and will give it to you, ten tribes.
1 Kings 11:36 Yet to his son the city where I have chosen to put my name.
1 Kings 11:37 And I will take you, and you shall reign over all that your soul desires, and you shall be king over Israel.
1 Kings 11:38 And if you will listen to all that I command you, and will walk in my ways, and do what is right in my eyes by keeping my statutes and my commandments, as David my servant did, will build you a sure house, as I built for David, and I will give Israel to you.
1 Kings 11:39 And I will afflict the offspring of David because of this, but not forever.’”
1 Kings 11:40 Solomon sought therefore to kill Jeroboam. But Jeroboam arose and fled into Egypt, to Shishak king of Egypt, and was in Egypt until the death of Solomon.
1 Kings 11:41  Now the rest of the acts of Solomon, and all that he did, and his wisdom, are they not written in the Book of the Acts of Solomon?
1 Kings 11:42 And the time that Solomon reigned in Jerusalem over all Israel was forty years.
1 Kings 11:43 And Solomon Rehoboam his son reigned in his place.
1 Kings 12:1  Shechem, for all Israel had come to Shechem to make him king.
1 Kings 12:2 And as soon as  Egypt.
1 Kings 12:3 And they sent and called him, and Jeroboam and all the assembly of Israel came and said to Rehoboam,
1 Kings 12:4  “Your father made our yoke heavy. Now therefore lighten the hard service of your father and his heavy yoke on us, and we will serve you.”
1 Kings 12:5 He said to them, “Go away for three days, then come again to me.” So the people went away.
1 Kings 12:6 Then King Rehoboam took counsel with the old men, who had stood before Solomon his father while he was yet alive, saying, “How do you advise me to answer this people?”
1 Kings 12:7 And they said to him, “If you will be a servant to this people today and serve them, and speak good words to them when you answer them, then they will be your servants forever.”
1 Kings 12:8 But he abandoned the counsel that the old men gave him and took counsel with the young men who had grown up with him and stood before him.
1 Kings 12:9 And he said to them, “What do you advise that we answer this people who have said to me, ‘Lighten the yoke that your father put on us’?”
1 Kings 12:10 And the young men who had grown up with him said to him, “Thus shall you speak to this people who said to you, ‘Your father made our yoke heavy, but you lighten it for us,’ thus shall you say to them, ‘My little finger is thicker than my father's thighs.
1 Kings 12:11 And now, whereas my father laid on you a heavy yoke, I will add to your yoke. My father disciplined you with whips, but I will discipline you with scorpions.’”
1 Kings 12:12 So Jeroboam and all the people came to Rehoboam the third day, as the king said, “Come to me again the third day.”
1 Kings 12:13 And the king answered the people harshly, and forsaking the counsel that the old men had given him,
1 Kings 12:14 he spoke to them according to the counsel of the young men, saying, “My father made your yoke heavy, but I will add to your yoke. My father disciplined you with whips, but I will discipline you with scorpions.”
1 Kings 12:15 So the king did not listen to the people, for the LORD spoke by Ahijah the Shilonite to Jeroboam the son of Nebat.
1 Kings 12:16 And when all Israel saw that the king did not listen to them, the people answered the king, “What portion do we have in David? We have no inheritance in the son of Jesse. To your tents, O Israel! Look now to your own house, David.” So Israel went to their tents.
1 Kings 12:17 But Rehoboam reigned over the people of Israel who lived in the cities of Judah.
1 Kings 12:18 Then King Rehoboam sent Adoram, who was taskmaster over the forced labor, and all Israel stoned him to death with stones. And King Rehoboam hurried to mount his chariot to flee to Jerusalem.
1 Kings 12:19  So Israel has been in rebellion against the house of David to this day.
1 Kings 12:20 And when all Israel heard that Jeroboam had returned, they sent and called him to the assembly and made him king over all Israel. There was none that followed the house of David but the tribe of Judah only.
1 Kings 12:21  When Rehoboam came to Jerusalem, he assembled all the house of Judah and the tribe of Benjamin, 180,000 chosen warriors, to fight against the house of Israel, to restore the kingdom to Rehoboam the son of Solomon.
1 Kings 12:22 But the word of God came to Shemaiah the man of God:
1 Kings 12:23 “Say to Rehoboam the son of Solomon, king of Judah, and to all the house of Judah and Benjamin, and to the rest of the people,
1 Kings 12:24 ‘Thus says the LORD, You shall not go up or fight against your relatives the people of Israel. Every man return to his home, for this thing is from me.’” So they listened to the word of the LORD and went home again, according to the word of the LORD.
1 Kings 12:25 Then Jeroboam built Penuel.
1 Kings 12:26 And Jeroboam said in his heart, “Now the kingdom will turn back to the house of David.
1 Kings 12:27 If this people go up to offer sacrifices in the temple of the LORD at Jerusalem, then the heart of this people will turn again to their lord, to Rehoboam king of Judah, and they will kill me and return to Rehoboam king of Judah.”
1 Kings 12:28 So the king took counsel and Behold your gods, O Israel, who brought you up out of the land of Egypt.”
1 Kings 12:29 And he set one in Bethel, and the other he put in Dan.
1 Kings 12:30 Then
1 Kings 12:31 He also made appointed priests from among all the people, who were not of the Levites.
1 Kings 12:32 And Jeroboam appointed a feast on the fifteenth day of the eighth month like the priests of the high places that he had made.
1 Kings 12:33 He went up to the altar that he had made in Bethel on the fifteenth day in the eighth month, in the month that he had devised from his own heart. And he instituted a feast for the people of Israel and went up to the altar to make offerings.
1 Kings 13:1 And behold, to make offerings.
1 Kings 13:2  Josiah by name, and he shall sacrifice on you the priests of the high places who make offerings on you, and human bones shall be burned on you.’”
1 Kings 13:3 And he gave a sign the same day, saying, “This is the sign that the LORD has spoken: ‘Behold, the altar shall be torn down, and the ashes that are on it shall be poured out.’”
1 Kings 13:4 And when the king heard the saying of the man of God, which he cried against the altar at Bethel, Jeroboam stretched out his hand from the altar, saying, “Seize him.” And his hand, which he stretched out against him, dried up, so that he could not draw it back to himself.
1 Kings 13:5 The altar also was torn down, and the ashes poured out from the altar, according to the sign that the man of God had given by the word of the LORD.
1 Kings 13:6 And the king said to the man of God, “Entreat now the favor of the LORD your God, and pray for me, that my hand may be restored to me.” And the man of God entreated the LORD, and the king's hand was restored to him and became as it was before.
1 Kings 13:7 And the king said to the man of God, “Come home with me, and refresh yourself, and I will give you a reward.”
1 Kings 13:8 And the man of God said to the king, I will not go in with you. And I will not eat bread or drink water in this place,
1 Kings 13:9 for so was it commanded me by the word of the LORD, saying, ‘You shall neither eat bread nor drink water nor return by the way that you came.’”
1 Kings 13:10 So he went another way and did not return by the way that he came to Bethel.
1 Kings 13:11 Now  came and told him all that the man of God had done that day in Bethel. They also told to their father the words that he had spoken to the king.
1 Kings 13:12 And their father said to them, “Which way did he go?” And his sons showed him the way that the man of God who came from Judah had gone.
1 Kings 13:13 And he said to his sons, “Saddle the donkey for me.” So they saddled the donkey for him and he mounted it.
1 Kings 13:14 And he went after the man of God and found him sitting under an oak. And he said to him, “Are you the man of God who came from Judah?” And he said, “I am.”
1 Kings 13:15 Then he said to him, “Come home with me and eat bread.”
1 Kings 13:16 And he said, “I may not return with you, or go in with you, neither will I eat bread nor drink water with you in this place,
1 Kings 13:17 for it was said to me by the word of the LORD, ‘You shall neither eat bread nor drink water there, nor return by the way that you came.’”
1 Kings 13:18 And he said to him, “I also am a prophet as you are, and an angel spoke to me by the word of the LORD, saying, ‘Bring him back with you into your house that he may eat bread and drink water.’” But he lied to him.
1 Kings 13:19 So he went back with him and ate bread in his house and drank water.
1 Kings 13:20 And as they sat at the table, the word of the LORD came to the prophet who had brought him back.
1 Kings 13:21 And he cried to the man of God who came from Judah, “Thus says the LORD, ‘Because you have disobeyed the word of the LORD and have not kept the command that the LORD your God commanded you,
1 Kings 13:22 but have come back and have eaten bread and drunk water in the place of which he said to you, “Eat no bread and drink no water,” your body shall not come to the tomb of your fathers.’”
1 Kings 13:23 And after he had eaten bread and drunk, he saddled the donkey for the prophet whom he had brought back.
1 Kings 13:24 And as he went away a lion met him on the road and killed him. And his body was thrown in the road, and the donkey stood beside it; the lion also stood beside the body.
1 Kings 13:25 And behold, men passed by and saw the body thrown in the road and the lion standing by the body. And they came and told it in the city where the old prophet lived.
1 Kings 13:26 And when the prophet who had brought him back from the way heard of it, he said, “It is the man of God who disobeyed the word of the LORD; therefore the LORD has given him to the lion, which has torn him and killed him, according to the word that the LORD spoke to him.”
1 Kings 13:27 And he said to his sons, “Saddle the donkey for me.” And they saddled it.
1 Kings 13:28 And he went and found his body thrown in the road, and the donkey and the lion standing beside the body. The lion had not eaten the body or torn the donkey.
1 Kings 13:29 And the prophet took up the body of the man of God and laid it on the donkey and brought it back to the city  to mourn and to bury him.
1 Kings 13:30 And he laid the body in his own grave. And they mourned over him, saying, “Alas, my brother!”
1 Kings 13:31 And after he had buried him, he said to his sons, “When I die, bury me in the grave in which the man of God is buried; lay my bones beside his bones.
1 Kings 13:32  Samaria shall surely come to pass.”
1 Kings 13:33 After this thing Jeroboam did not turn from his evil way, but made priests for the high places again from among all the people. Any who would, he ordained to be priests of the high places.
1 Kings 13:34  so as to cut it off and to destroy it from the face of the earth.
1 Kings 14:1 At that time Abijah the son of Jeroboam fell sick.
1 Kings 14:2 And Jeroboam said to his wife, “Arise, and disguise yourself, that it not be known that you are the wife of Jeroboam, and go to who said of me that I should be king over this people.
1 Kings 14:3  Take with you ten loaves, some cakes, and a jar of honey, and go to him. He will tell you what shall happen to the child.”
1 Kings 14:4 Jeroboam's wife did so. She arose and went to Ahijah could not see, for his eyes were dim because of his age.
1 Kings 14:5 And the LORD said to Ahijah, “Behold, the wife of Jeroboam is coming to inquire of you concerning her son, for he is sick. Thus and thus shall you say to her.” When she came, she pretended to be another woman.
1 Kings 14:6 But when Ahijah heard the sound of her feet, as she came in at the door, he said, “Come in, wife of Jeroboam. Why do you pretend to be another? For I am charged with unbearable news for you.
1 Kings 14:7 Go, tell Jeroboam, ‘Thus says the LORD, the God of Israel: “Because I exalted you from among the people and made you leader over my people Israel
1 Kings 14:8 and like my servant David, who kept my commandments and followed me with all his heart, doing only that which was right in my eyes,
1 Kings 14:9 but you have done evil above all who were before you and have gone and have cast me behind your back,
1 Kings 14:10 therefore behold, I will bring harm upon the house of Jeroboam and will burn up the house of Jeroboam, as a man burns up dung until it is all gone.
1 Kings 14:11  Anyone belonging to Jeroboam who dies in the city the dogs shall eat, and anyone who dies in the open country the birds of the heavens shall eat, for the LORD has spoken it.”’
1 Kings 14:12 Arise therefore, go to your house. When your feet enter the city, the child shall die.
1 Kings 14:13 And all Israel shall mourn for him and bury him, for he only of Jeroboam shall come to the grave, because in him there is found something pleasing to the LORD, the God of Israel, in the house of Jeroboam.
1 Kings 14:14  Moreover, the LORD will raise up for himself a king over Israel who shall cut off the house of Jeroboam today. And henceforth,
1 Kings 14:15 the LORD will strike Israel as a reed is shaken in the water, and Asherim, provoking the LORD to anger.
1 Kings 14:16 And he will give Israel up because of the sins of Jeroboam, which he sinned and made Israel to sin.”
1 Kings 14:17 Then Jeroboam's wife arose and departed and came to as she came to the threshold of the house, the child died.
1 Kings 14:18 And all Israel buried him and mourned for him, according to the word of the LORD, which he spoke by his servant Ahijah the prophet.
1 Kings 14:19 Now the rest of the acts of Jeroboam, how he warred and how he reigned, behold, they are written in the Book of the Chronicles of the Kings of Israel.
1 Kings 14:20 And the time that Jeroboam reigned was twenty-two years. And he slept with his fathers, and Nadab his son reigned in his place.
1 Kings 14:21  His mother's name was Naamah the Ammonite.
1 Kings 14:22  provoked him to jealousy with their sins that they committed, more than all that their fathers had done.
1 Kings 14:23 For they also built for themselves under every green tree,
1 Kings 14:24 and there were also male cult prostitutes in the land. They did according to all the abominations of the nations that the LORD drove out before the people of Israel.
1 Kings 14:25  In the fifth year of King Rehoboam, Shishak king of Egypt came up against Jerusalem.
1 Kings 14:26 He took away the treasures of the house of the LORD and the treasures of the king's house. that Solomon had made,
1 Kings 14:27 and King Rehoboam made in their place shields of bronze, and committed them to the hands of the officers of the guard, who kept the door of the king's house.
1 Kings 14:28 And as often as the king went into the house of the LORD, the guard carried them and brought them back to the guardroom.
1 Kings 14:29  Now the rest of the acts of Rehoboam and all that he did, are they not written in the Book of the Chronicles of the Kings of Judah?
1 Kings 14:30  And there was war between Rehoboam and Jeroboam continually.
1 Kings 14:31 And Rehoboam slept with his fathers and was buried with his fathers in the city of David. Abijam his son reigned in his place.
1 Kings 15:1  Now in the eighteenth year of King Jeroboam the son of Nebat, Abijam began to reign over Judah.
1 Kings 15:2 He reigned for three years in Jerusalem. His mother's name was Maacah the daughter of Abishalom.
1 Kings 15:3 And he walked in all the sins that his father did before him, and his heart was not wholly true to the LORD his God, as the heart of David his father.
1 Kings 15:4 Nevertheless, for David's sake the LORD his God gave him a lamp in Jerusalem, setting up his son after him, and establishing Jerusalem,
1 Kings 15:5 because except in the matter of Uriah the Hittite.
1 Kings 15:6  Now there was war between Rehoboam and Jeroboam all the days of his life.
1 Kings 15:7  And there was war between Abijam and Jeroboam.
1 Kings 15:8  And Abijam slept with his fathers, and they buried him in the city of David. And Asa his son reigned in his place.
1 Kings 15:9 In the twentieth year of Jeroboam king of Israel, Asa began to reign over Judah,
1 Kings 15:10 and he reigned forty-one years in Jerusalem. His mother's name was Maacah the daughter of Abishalom.
1 Kings 15:11  And Asa did what was right in the eyes of the LORD, as David his father had done.
1 Kings 15:12 He put away the all the idols that his fathers had made.
1 Kings 15:13  burned it at the brook Kidron.
1 Kings 15:14  the heart of Asa was wholly true to the LORD all his days.
1 Kings 15:15 And he brought into the house of the LORD the sacred gifts of his father and his own sacred gifts, silver, and gold, and vessels.
1 Kings 15:16  And there was war between Asa and Baasha king of Israel all their days.
1 Kings 15:17  that he might permit no one to go out or come in to Asa king of Judah.
1 Kings 15:18 Then Asa took all the silver and the gold who lived in Damascus, saying,
1 Kings 15:19 “Let there be  between me and you, as there was between my father and your father. Behold, I am sending to you a present of silver and gold. Go, break your covenant with Baasha king of Israel, that he may withdraw from me.”
1 Kings 15:20 And Ben-hadad listened to King Asa and sent the commanders of his armies against the cities of Israel and conquered Chinneroth, with all the land of Naphtali.
1 Kings 15:21 And when Baasha heard of it, Tirzah.
1 Kings 15:22 Then King Asa made a proclamation to all Judah, none was exempt, and they carried away the stones of Ramah and its timber, with which Baasha had been building, and with them King Asa built Mizpah.
1 Kings 15:23  Now the rest of all the acts of Asa, all his might, and all that he did, and the cities that he built, are they not written in the Book of the Chronicles of the Kings of Judah? But in his old age he was diseased in his feet.
1 Kings 15:24 And Asa slept with his fathers and was buried with his fathers in the city of David his father, and Jehoshaphat his son reigned in his place.
1 Kings 15:25  Nadab the son of Jeroboam began to reign over Israel in the second year of Asa king of Judah, and he reigned over Israel two years.
1 Kings 15:26 He did what was evil in the sight of the LORD which he made Israel to sin.
1 Kings 15:27  Gibbethon, which belonged to the Philistines, for Nadab and all Israel were laying siege to Gibbethon.
1 Kings 15:28 So Baasha killed him in the third year of Asa king of Judah and reigned in his place.
1 Kings 15:29 And as soon as he was king, he killed all the house of Jeroboam. He left to the house of Jeroboam not one that breathed, until he had destroyed it, according to the word of the LORD that he spoke by his servant Ahijah the Shilonite.
1 Kings 15:30 It was for the sins of Jeroboam that he sinned and that he made Israel to sin, and because of the anger to which he provoked the LORD, the God of Israel.
1 Kings 15:31 Now the rest of the acts of Nadab and all that he did, are they not written in the Book of the Chronicles of the Kings of Israel?
1 Kings 15:32  And there was war between Asa and Baasha king of Israel all their days.
1 Kings 15:33 In the third year of Asa king of Judah, Baasha the son of Ahijah began to reign over all Israel at Tirzah, and he reigned twenty-four years.
1 Kings 15:34 He did what was evil in the sight of the LORD and walked in the way of Jeroboam and in his sin which he made Israel to sin.
1 Kings 16:1 And the word of the LORD came to Hanani against Baasha, saying,
1 Kings 16:2 “Since I you have walked in the way of Jeroboam and have made my people Israel to sin, provoking me to anger with their sins,
1 Kings 16:3 behold, I will utterly like the house of Jeroboam the son of Nebat.
1 Kings 16:4  Anyone belonging to Baasha who dies in the city the dogs shall eat, and anyone of his who dies in the field the birds of the heavens shall eat.”
1 Kings 16:5 Now the rest of the acts of Baasha and what he did, and his might, are they not written in the Book of the Chronicles of the Kings of Israel?
1 Kings 16:6 And Baasha slept with his fathers and was buried at Tirzah, and Elah his son reigned in his place.
1 Kings 16:7 Moreover, the word of the LORD came by the prophet he destroyed it.
1 Kings 16:8 In the twenty-sixth year of Asa king of Judah, Elah the son of Baasha began to reign over Israel in Tirzah, and he reigned two years.
1 Kings 16:9 But his servant who was over the household in Tirzah,
1 Kings 16:10 Zimri came in and struck him down and killed him, in the twenty-seventh year of Asa king of Judah, and reigned in his place.
1 Kings 16:11 When he began to reign, as soon as he had seated himself on his throne, he struck down did not leave him a single male of his relatives or his friends.
1 Kings 16:12 Thus Zimri destroyed all the house of Baasha, Jehu the prophet,
1 Kings 16:13 for all the sins of Baasha and the sins of Elah his son, which they sinned and which they made Israel to sin, provoking the LORD God of Israel to anger with their idols.
1 Kings 16:14 Now the rest of the acts of Elah and all that he did, are they not written in the Book of the Chronicles of the Kings of Israel?
1 Kings 16:15 In the twenty-seventh year of Asa king of Judah, Zimri reigned seven days in Tirzah. Now the troops were encamped against Gibbethon, which belonged to the Philistines,
1 Kings 16:16 and the troops who were encamped heard it said, “Zimri has conspired, and he has killed the king.” Therefore all Israel made Omri, the commander of the army, king over Israel that day in the camp.
1 Kings 16:17 So Omri went up from Gibbethon, and all Israel with him, and they besieged Tirzah.
1 Kings 16:18 And when Zimri saw that the city was taken, he went into the citadel of the king's house and burned the king's house over him with fire and died,
1 Kings 16:19 because of his sins that he committed, doing evil in the sight of the LORD, walking in the way of Jeroboam, and for his sin which he committed, making Israel to sin.
1 Kings 16:20 Now the rest of the acts of Zimri, and the conspiracy that he made, are they not written in the Book of the Chronicles of the Kings of Israel?
1 Kings 16:21 Then the people of Israel were divided into two parts. Half of the people followed Tibni the son of Ginath, to make him king, and half followed Omri.
1 Kings 16:22 But the people who followed Omri overcame the people who followed Tibni the son of Ginath. So Tibni died, and Omri became king.
1 Kings 16:23 In the thirty-first year of Asa king of Judah, Omri began to reign over Israel, and he reigned for twelve years; six years he reigned in Tirzah.
1 Kings 16:24 He bought the hill of Samaria, after the name of Shemer, the owner of the hill.
1 Kings 16:25  than all who were before him.
1 Kings 16:26 For provoking the LORD, the God of Israel, to anger by their idols.
1 Kings 16:27 Now the rest of the acts of Omri that he did, and the might that he showed, are they not written in the Book of the Chronicles of the Kings of Israel?
1 Kings 16:28 And Omri slept with his fathers and was buried in Samaria, and Ahab his son reigned in his place.
1 Kings 16:29 In the thirty-eighth year of Asa king of Judah, Ahab the son of Omri began to reign over Israel, and Ahab the son of Omri reigned over Israel in Samaria twenty-two years.
1 Kings 16:30 And Ahab the son of Omri did evil in the sight of the LORD, more than all who were before him.
1 Kings 16:31 And as if it had been a light thing for him to walk in the sins of Jeroboam the son of Nebat, and went and served Baal and worshiped him.
1 Kings 16:32 He erected an altar for Baal in the house of Baal, which he built in Samaria.
1 Kings 16:33 And Ahab made an than all the kings of Israel who were before him.
1 Kings 16:34  Jericho. He laid its foundation at the cost of Abiram his firstborn, and set up its gates at the cost of his youngest son Segub, according to the word of the LORD, which he spoke by Joshua the son of Nun.
1 Kings 17:1 Now Elijah the Tishbite, of there shall be neither dew nor rain these years, except by my word.”
1 Kings 17:2 And the word of the LORD came to him:
1 Kings 17:3 “Depart from here and turn eastward and hide yourself by the brook Cherith, which is east of the Jordan.
1 Kings 17:4 You shall drink from the brook, and I have commanded the ravens to feed you there.”
1 Kings 17:5 So he went and did according to the word of the LORD. He went and lived by the brook Cherith that is east of the Jordan.
1 Kings 17:6 And the ravens brought him bread and meat in the morning, and bread and meat in the evening, and he drank from the brook.
1 Kings 17:7 And after a while the brook dried up, because there was no rain in the land.
1 Kings 17:8 Then the word of the LORD came to him,
1 Kings 17:9 “Arise, go to Zarephath, which belongs to Sidon, and dwell there. Behold, I have commanded a widow there to feed you.”
1 Kings 17:10 So he arose and went to gathering sticks. And he called to her and said, “Bring me a little water in a vessel, that I may drink.”
1 Kings 17:11 And as she was going to bring it, he called to her and said, “Bring me a morsel of bread in your hand.”
1 Kings 17:12 And she said, “As the LORD your God lives, I have nothing baked, only a handful of flour in a jar and a little oil in a jug. And now I am gathering a couple of sticks that I may go in and prepare it for myself and my son, that we may eat it and die.”
1 Kings 17:13 And Elijah said to her, “Do not fear; go and do as you have said. But first make me a little cake of it and bring it to me, and afterward make something for yourself and your son.
1 Kings 17:14 For thus says the LORD, the God of Israel, ‘The jar of flour shall not be spent, and the jug of oil shall not be empty, until the day that the LORD sends rain upon the earth.’”
1 Kings 17:15 And she went and did as Elijah said. And she and he and her household ate for many days.
1 Kings 17:16 The jar of flour was not spent, neither did the jug of oil become empty, according to the word of the LORD that he spoke by Elijah.
1 Kings 17:17 After this the son of the woman, the mistress of the house, became ill. And his illness was so severe that there was no breath left in him.
1 Kings 17:18 And she said to Elijah, man of God? You have come to me to bring my sin to remembrance and to cause the death of my son!”
1 Kings 17:19 And he said to her, “Give me your son.” And he took him from her arms and carried him up into the upper chamber where he lodged, and laid him on his own bed.
1 Kings 17:20 And he cried to the LORD, “O LORD my God, have you brought calamity even upon the widow with whom I sojourn, by killing her son?”
1 Kings 17:21   come into him again.”
1 Kings 17:22 And the LORD listened to the voice of Elijah. And the life of the child came into him again, and he revived.
1 Kings 17:23 And Elijah took the child and brought him down from the upper chamber into the house and delivered him to his mother. And Elijah said, “See, your son lives.”
1 Kings 17:24 And the woman said to Elijah, “Now I know that you are a man of God, and that the word of the LORD in your mouth is truth.”
1 Kings 18:1  After many days the word of the LORD came to Elijah, in the third year, saying, “Go, show yourself to Ahab, and I will send rain upon the earth.”
1 Kings 18:2 So Elijah went to show himself to Ahab. Now the famine was severe in Samaria.
1 Kings 18:3 And Ahab called Obadiah, who was over the household. (Now Obadiah feared the LORD greatly,
1 Kings 18:4 and when Jezebel cut off the prophets of the LORD, Obadiah took a hundred prophets and hid them by fifties in a cave and fed them with bread and water.)
1 Kings 18:5 And Ahab said to Obadiah, “Go through the land to all the springs of water and to all the valleys. Perhaps we may find grass and save the horses and mules alive, and not lose some of the animals.”
1 Kings 18:6 So they divided the land between them to pass through it. Ahab went in one direction by himself, and Obadiah went in another direction by himself.
1 Kings 18:7 And as Obadiah was on the way, behold, Elijah met him. And Obadiah recognized him and fell on his face and said, “Is it you, my lord Elijah?”
1 Kings 18:8 And he answered him, “It is I. Go, tell your lord, ‘Behold, Elijah is here.’”
1 Kings 18:9 And he said, “How have I sinned, that you would give your servant into the hand of Ahab, to kill me?
1 Kings 18:10  As the LORD your God lives, there is no nation or kingdom where my lord has not sent to seek you. And when they would say, ‘He is not here,’ he would take an oath of the kingdom or nation, that they had not found you.
1 Kings 18:11 And now you say, ‘Go, tell your lord, “Behold, Elijah is here.”’
1 Kings 18:12 And as soon as I have gone from you, the Spirit of the LORD will carry you I know not where. And so, when I come and tell Ahab and he cannot find you, he will kill me, although I your servant have feared the LORD from my youth.
1 Kings 18:13 Has it not been told my lord what I did when Jezebel killed the prophets of the LORD, how I hid a hundred men of the LORD's prophets by fifties in a cave and fed them with bread and water?
1 Kings 18:14 And now you say, ‘Go, tell your lord, “Behold, Elijah is here”’; and he will kill me.”
1 Kings 18:15 And Elijah said, “As the LORD of hosts lives, before whom I stand, I will surely show myself to him today.”
1 Kings 18:16 So Obadiah went to meet Ahab, and told him. And Ahab went to meet Elijah.
1 Kings 18:17 When Ahab saw Elijah, Ahab said to him, troubler of Israel?”
1 Kings 18:18 And he answered, “I have not troubled Israel, but you have, and your father's house, because you have followed the Baals.
1 Kings 18:19 Now therefore send and gather all Israel to me at Mount who eat at Jezebel's table.”
1 Kings 18:20 So Ahab sent to all the people of Israel and gathered the prophets together at Mount Carmel.
1 Kings 18:21 And Elijah came near to all the people and said, “How long If the LORD is God, follow him; but if Baal, then follow him.” And the people did not answer him a word.
1 Kings 18:22 Then Elijah said to the people, 450 men.
1 Kings 18:23 Let two bulls be given to us, and let them choose one bull for themselves and cut it in pieces and lay it on the wood, but put no fire to it. And I will prepare the other bull and lay it on the wood and put no fire to it.
1 Kings 18:24 And you call upon the name of your god, and I will call upon the name of the LORD, and the God who answers by fire, he is God.” And all the people answered, “It is well spoken.”
1 Kings 18:25 Then Elijah said to the prophets of Baal, “Choose for yourselves one bull and prepare it first, for you are many, and call upon the name of your god, but put no fire to it.”
1 Kings 18:26 And they took the bull that was given them, and they prepared it and called upon the name of Baal from morning until noon, saying, “O Baal, answer us!” But there was no voice, and no one answered. And they limped around the altar that they had made.
1 Kings 18:27 And at noon Elijah mocked them, saying, “Cry aloud, for he is a god. Either he is musing, or he is relieving himself, or he is on a journey, or perhaps he is asleep and must be awakened.”
1 Kings 18:28 And they cried aloud and cut themselves after their custom with swords and lances, until the blood gushed out upon them.
1 Kings 18:29 And as midday passed, they raved on until the time of the offering of the oblation, but there was no voice. No one answered; no one paid attention.
1 Kings 18:30 Then Elijah said to all the people, “Come near to me.” And all the people came near to him. And he repaired the altar of the LORD that had been thrown down.
1 Kings 18:31 Elijah took twelve stones, according to the number of the tribes of the sons of Jacob, to whom the word of the LORD came, saying, “Israel shall be your name,”
1 Kings 18:32 and with the stones he built an altar in the name of the LORD. And he made a trench about the altar, as great as would contain two seahs  of seed.
1 Kings 18:33  pour it on the burnt offering and on the wood.”
1 Kings 18:34 And he said, “Do it a second time.” And they did it a second time. And he said, “Do it a third time.” And they did it a third time.
1 Kings 18:35 And the water ran around the altar and filled the trench also with water.
1 Kings 18:36 And at the time of I have done all these things at your word.
1 Kings 18:37 Answer me, O LORD, answer me, that this people may know that you, O LORD, are God, and that you have turned their hearts back.”
1 Kings 18:38  Then the fire of the LORD fell and consumed the burnt offering and the wood and the stones and the dust, and licked up the water that was in the trench.
1 Kings 18:39 And when all the people saw it, they fell on their faces and said, “The LORD, he is God; the LORD, he is God.”
1 Kings 18:40 And Elijah said to them, “Seize the prophets of Baal; let not one of them escape.” And they seized them. And Elijah brought them down to slaughtered them there.
1 Kings 18:41 And Elijah said to Ahab, “Go up, eat and drink, for there is a sound of the rushing of rain.”
1 Kings 18:42 So Ahab went up to eat and to drink. And Elijah went up to the top of Mount Carmel. And he bowed himself down on the earth and put his face between his knees.
1 Kings 18:43 And he said to his servant, “Go up now, look toward the sea.” And he went up and looked and said, “There is nothing.” And he said, “Go again,” seven times.
1 Kings 18:44 And at the seventh time he said, “Behold, a little cloud like a man's hand is rising from the sea.” And he said, “Go up, say to Ahab, ‘Prepare your chariot and go down, lest the rain stop you.’”
1 Kings 18:45 And in a little while the heavens grew black with clouds and wind, and there was a great rain. And Ahab rode and went to Jezreel.
1 Kings 18:46  Jezreel.
1 Kings 19:1 Ahab told Jezebel all that Elijah had done, and how he had killed all the prophets with the sword.
1 Kings 19:2 Then Jezebel sent a messenger to Elijah, saying, “So may the gods do to me and more also, if I do not make your life as the life of one of them by this time tomorrow.”
1 Kings 19:3 Then he was afraid, and he arose and ran for his life and came to Beersheba, which belongs to Judah, and left his servant there.
1 Kings 19:4 But he himself went a day's journey into the wilderness and came and sat down under a broom tree. And he asked that he might die, saying, “It is enough; now, O LORD, take away my life, for I am no better than my fathers.”
1 Kings 19:5 And he lay down and slept under a broom tree. And behold, an angel touched him and said to him, “Arise and eat.”
1 Kings 19:6 And he looked, and behold, there was at his head a cake baked on hot stones and a jar of water. And he ate and drank and lay down again.
1 Kings 19:7 And the angel of the LORD came again a second time and touched him and said, “Arise and eat, for the journey is too great for you.”
1 Kings 19:8 And he arose and ate and drank, and went in the strength of that food Horeb, the mount of God.
1 Kings 19:9 There he came to a cave and lodged in it. And behold, the word of the LORD came to him, and he said to him, “What are you doing here, Elijah?”
1 Kings 19:10 He said, “I have been very and I, even I only, am left, and they seek my life, to take it away.”
1 Kings 19:11 And he said, “Go out and an earthquake, but the LORD was not in the earthquake.
1 Kings 19:12 And after the earthquake a fire, but the LORD was not in the fire. And after the fire the sound of a low whisper.
1 Kings 19:13 And when Elijah heard it, there came a voice to him and said, “What are you doing here, Elijah?”
1 Kings 19:14 He said, thrown down your altars, and killed your prophets with the sword, and I, even I only, am left, and they seek my life, to take it away.”
1 Kings 19:15 And the LORD said to him, “Go, return on your way to the wilderness of Damascus. And when you arrive, you shall anoint Hazael to be king over Syria.
1 Kings 19:16  Elisha the son of Shaphat of Abel-meholah you shall anoint to be prophet in your place.
1 Kings 19:17 And the one who escapes from shall Elisha put to death.
1 Kings 19:18  kissed him.”
1 Kings 19:19 So he departed from there and found Elisha the son of Shaphat, who was plowing with twelve yoke of oxen in front of him, and he was with the twelfth. Elijah passed by him and cast his cloak upon him.
1 Kings 19:20 And he left the oxen and ran after Elijah and said, “Let me kiss my father and my mother, and then I will follow you.” And he said to him, “Go back again, for what have I done to you?”
1 Kings 19:21 And he returned from following him and took the yoke of oxen and sacrificed them and boiled their flesh with the yokes of the oxen and gave it to the people, and they ate. Then he arose and went after Elijah and assisted him.
1 Kings 20:1  Samaria and fought against it.
1 Kings 20:2 And he sent messengers into the city to Ahab king of Israel and said to him, “Thus says Ben-hadad:
1 Kings 20:3 ‘Your silver and your gold are mine; your best wives and children also are mine.’”
1 Kings 20:4 And the king of Israel answered, “As you say, my lord, O king, I am yours, and all that I have.”
1 Kings 20:5 The messengers came again and said, “Thus says Ben-hadad: ‘I sent to you, saying, “Deliver to me your silver and your gold, your wives and your children.”
1 Kings 20:6 Nevertheless I will send my servants to you tomorrow about this time, and they shall search your house and the houses of your servants and lay hands on whatever pleases you and take it away.’”
1 Kings 20:7 Then the king of Israel called all the “Mark, now, and see how this man is seeking trouble, for he sent to me for my wives and my children, and for my silver and my gold, and I did not refuse him.”
1 Kings 20:8 And all the elders and all the people said to him, “Do not listen or consent.”
1 Kings 20:9 So he said to the messengers of Ben-hadad, “Tell my lord the king, ‘All that you first demanded of your servant I will do, but this thing I cannot do.’” And the messengers departed and brought him word again.
1 Kings 20:10 Ben-hadad sent to him and said, who follow me.”
1 Kings 20:11 And the king of Israel answered, “Tell him, ‘Let not him who straps on his armor boast himself as he who takes it off.’”
1 Kings 20:12 When Ben-hadad heard this message as he was drinking with the kings in the booths, he said to his men, “Take your positions.” And they took their positions against the city.
1 Kings 20:13 And behold, a prophet came near to Ahab king of Israel and said, “Thus says the LORD, Have you seen all this great multitude? Behold, and you shall know that I am the LORD.”
1 Kings 20:14 And Ahab said, “By whom?” He said, “Thus says the LORD, By the servants of the governors of the districts.” Then he said, “Who shall begin the battle?” He answered, “You.”
1 Kings 20:15 Then he mustered the servants of the governors of the districts, and they were 232. And after them he mustered all the people of Israel, seven thousand.
1 Kings 20:16 And they went out at noon, while Ben-hadad was drinking himself drunk in the booths, he and the thirty-two kings who helped him.
1 Kings 20:17 The servants of the governors of the districts went out first. And Ben-hadad sent out scouts, and they reported to him, “Men are coming out from Samaria.”
1 Kings 20:18 He said, “If they have come out for peace, take them alive. Or if they have come out for war, take them alive.”
1 Kings 20:19 So these went out of the city, the servants of the governors of the districts and the army that followed them.
1 Kings 20:20 And each struck down his man. The Syrians fled, and Israel pursued them, but Ben-hadad king of Syria escaped on a horse with horsemen.
1 Kings 20:21 And the king of Israel went out and struck the horses and chariots, and struck the Syrians with a great blow.
1 Kings 20:22 Then in the spring the king of Syria will come up against you.”
1 Kings 20:23 And the servants of the king of Syria said to him, “Their gods are gods of the hills, and so they were stronger than we. But let us fight against them in the plain, and surely we shall be stronger than they.
1 Kings 20:24 And do this: remove the kings, each from his post, and put commanders in their places,
1 Kings 20:25 and muster an army like the army that you have lost, horse for horse, and chariot for chariot. Then we will fight against them in the plain, and surely we shall be stronger than they.” And he listened to their voice and did so.
1 Kings 20:26  Aphek to fight against Israel.
1 Kings 20:27 And the people of Israel were mustered and were provisioned and went against them. The people of Israel encamped before them like two little flocks of goats, but the Syrians filled the country.
1 Kings 20:28 And a I will give all this great multitude into your hand, and you shall know that I am the LORD.’”
1 Kings 20:29 And they encamped opposite one another seven days. Then on the seventh day the battle was joined. And the people of Israel struck down of the Syrians 100,000 foot soldiers in one day.
1 Kings 20:30 And the rest fled into the city of an inner chamber in the city.
1 Kings 20:31 And his servants said to him, “Behold now, we have heard that the kings of the house of Israel are merciful kings. Let us put sackcloth around our waists and ropes on our heads and go out to the king of Israel. Perhaps he will spare your life.”
1 Kings 20:32 So they tied sackcloth around their waists and put ropes on their heads and went to the king of Israel and said, “Your servant Ben-hadad says, ‘Please, let me live.’” And he said, “Does he still live? He is my brother.”
1 Kings 20:33 Now the men were watching for a sign, and they quickly took it up from him and said, “Yes, your brother Ben-hadad.” Then he said, “Go and bring him.” Then Ben-hadad came out to him, and he caused him to come up into the chariot.
1 Kings 20:34 And Ben-hadad said to him, Damascus, as my father did in Samaria.” And Ahab said, “I will let you go on these terms.” So he made a covenant with him and let him go.
1 Kings 20:35 And a certain man of at the command of the LORD, “Strike me, please.” But the man refused to strike him.
1 Kings 20:36 Then he said to him, “Because you have not obeyed the voice of the LORD, behold, as soon as you have gone from me, a lion shall strike you down.” And as soon as he had departed from him, a lion met him and struck him down.
1 Kings 20:37 Then he found another man and said, “Strike me, please.” And the man struck him — struck him and wounded him.
1 Kings 20:38 So the prophet departed and waited for the king by the way, disguising himself with a bandage over his eyes.
1 Kings 20:39 And as the king passed, he cried to the king and said, “Your servant went out into the midst of the battle, and behold, a soldier turned and brought a man to me and said, ‘Guard this man; if by any means he is missing,  of silver.’
1 Kings 20:40 And as your servant was busy here and there, he was gone.” The king of Israel said to him, “So shall your judgment be; you yourself have decided it.”
1 Kings 20:41 Then he hurried to take the bandage away from his eyes, and the king of Israel recognized him as one of the prophets.
1 Kings 20:42 And he said to him, “Thus says the LORD, ‘Because you have let go out of your hand the man whom I had devoted to destruction, your life shall be for his life, and your people for his people.’”
1 Kings 20:43 And the king of Israel went to his house vexed and sullen and came to Samaria.
1 Kings 21:1 Now Naboth the Jezreelite had a vineyard in Jezreel, beside the palace of Ahab king of Samaria.
1 Kings 21:2 And after this Ahab said to Naboth, “Give me your vineyard, that I may have it for a vegetable garden, because it is near my house, and I will give you a better vineyard for it; or, if it seems good to you, I will give you its value in money.”
1 Kings 21:3 But Naboth said to Ahab, “The LORD forbid that I should give you the inheritance of my fathers.”
1 Kings 21:4 And Ahab went into his house vexed and sullen because of what Naboth the Jezreelite had said to him, for he had said, “I will not give you the inheritance of my fathers.” And he lay down on his bed and turned away his face and would eat no food.
1 Kings 21:5 But Jezebel his wife came to him and said to him, “Why is your spirit so vexed that you eat no food?”
1 Kings 21:6 And he said to her, “Because I spoke to Naboth the Jezreelite and said to him, ‘Give me your vineyard for money, or else, if it please you, I will give you another vineyard for it.’ And he answered, ‘I will not give you my vineyard.’”
1 Kings 21:7 And Jezebel his wife said to him, “Do you now govern Israel? Arise and eat bread and let your heart be cheerful; I will give you the vineyard of Naboth the Jezreelite.”
1 Kings 21:8  the elders and the leaders who lived with Naboth in his city.
1 Kings 21:9 And she wrote in the letters, “Proclaim a fast, and set Naboth at the head of the people.
1 Kings 21:10 And set two  God and the king.’ Then take him out and stone him to death.”
1 Kings 21:11 And the men of his city, the elders and the leaders who lived in his city, did as Jezebel had sent word to them. As it was written in the letters that she had sent to them,
1 Kings 21:12  they proclaimed a fast and set Naboth at the head of the people.
1 Kings 21:13 And the two worthless men came in and sat opposite him. And the worthless men brought a charge against Naboth in the presence of the people, saying, “Naboth cursed God and the king.” So they took him outside the city and stoned him to death with stones.
1 Kings 21:14 Then they sent to Jezebel, saying, “Naboth has been stoned; he is dead.”
1 Kings 21:15 As soon as Jezebel heard that Naboth had been stoned and was dead, Jezebel said to Ahab, “Arise, take possession of the vineyard of Naboth the Jezreelite, which he refused to give you for money, for Naboth is not alive, but dead.”
1 Kings 21:16 And as soon as Ahab heard that Naboth was dead, Ahab arose to go down to the vineyard of Naboth the Jezreelite, to take possession of it.
1 Kings 21:17  Then the word of the LORD came to Elijah the Tishbite, saying,
1 Kings 21:18 “Arise, go down to meet Ahab king of Israel, who is in Samaria; behold, he is in the vineyard of Naboth, where he has gone to take possession.
1 Kings 21:19 And you shall say to him, ‘Thus says the LORD, “Have you killed and also taken possession?”’ And you shall say to him, ‘Thus says the LORD: “In the place where dogs licked up the blood of Naboth shall dogs lick your own blood.”’”
1 Kings 21:20 Ahab said to Elijah, you have sold yourself to do what is evil in the sight of the LORD.
1 Kings 21:21 Behold, I will bring disaster upon you. I will utterly burn you up, and will cut off from Ahab every male, bond or free, in Israel.
1 Kings 21:22 And I will make your house like have made Israel to sin.
1 Kings 21:23 And of Jezebel the LORD also said, the walls of Jezreel.’
1 Kings 21:24  Anyone belonging to Ahab who dies in the city the dogs shall eat, and anyone of his who dies in the open country the birds of the heavens shall eat.”
1 Kings 21:25 (There was none who sold himself to do what was evil in the sight of the LORD like Ahab, whom Jezebel his wife incited.
1 Kings 21:26 He acted very abominably in going after the Amorites had done, whom the LORD cast out before the people of Israel.)
1 Kings 21:27 And when Ahab heard those words, he fasted and lay in sackcloth and went about dejectedly.
1 Kings 21:28 And the word of the LORD came to Elijah the Tishbite, saying,
1 Kings 21:29 “Have you seen how Ahab has humbled himself before me? Because he has humbled himself before me, I will not bring the disaster in his days; but in his son's days I will bring the disaster upon his house.”
1 Kings 22:1 For three years Syria and Israel continued without war.
1 Kings 22:2  Jehoshaphat the king of Judah came down to the king of Israel.
1 Kings 22:3 And the king of Israel said to his servants, “Do you know that Ramoth-gilead belongs to us, and we keep quiet and do not take it out of the hand of the king of Syria?”
1 Kings 22:4 And he said to Jehoshaphat, “Will you go with me to battle at Ramoth-gilead?” And Jehoshaphat said to the king of Israel, “I am as you are, my people as your people, my horses as your horses.”
1 Kings 22:5 And Jehoshaphat said to the king of Israel, “Inquire first for the word of the LORD.”
1 Kings 22:6 Then the king of Israel gathered the prophets together, about four hundred men, and said to them, “Shall I go to battle against Ramoth-gilead, or shall I refrain?” And they said, “Go up, for the Lord will give it into the hand of the king.”
1 Kings 22:7 But Jehoshaphat said, “Is there not here another prophet of the LORD of whom we may inquire?”
1 Kings 22:8 And the king of Israel said to Jehoshaphat, “There is yet one man by whom we may inquire of the LORD, Micaiah the son of Imlah, but I hate him, for he never prophesies good concerning me, but evil.” And Jehoshaphat said, “Let not the king say so.”
1 Kings 22:9 Then the king of Israel summoned an officer and said, “Bring quickly Micaiah the son of Imlah.”
1 Kings 22:10 Now the king of Israel and Jehoshaphat the king of Judah were sitting on their thrones, arrayed in their robes, at the threshing floor at the entrance of the gate of Samaria, and all the prophets were prophesying before them.
1 Kings 22:11 And Zedekiah the son of Chenaanah made for himself you shall push the Syrians until they are destroyed.’”
1 Kings 22:12 And all the prophets prophesied so and said, “Go up to Ramoth-gilead and triumph; the LORD will give it into the hand of the king.”
1 Kings 22:13 And the messenger who went to summon Micaiah said to him, “Behold, the words of the prophets with one accord are favorable to the king. Let your word be like the word of one of them, and speak favorably.”
1 Kings 22:14 But Micaiah said, what the LORD says to me, that I will speak.”
1 Kings 22:15 And when he had come to the king, the king said to him, “Micaiah, shall we go to Ramoth-gilead to battle, or shall we refrain?” And he answered him, “Go up and triumph; the LORD will give it into the hand of the king.”
1 Kings 22:16 But the king said to him, “How many times shall I make you swear that you speak to me nothing but the truth in the name of the LORD?”
1 Kings 22:17 And he said, “I saw all Israel scattered on the mountains, as sheep that have no shepherd. And the LORD said, ‘These have no master; let each return to his home in peace.’”
1 Kings 22:18 And the king of Israel said to Jehoshaphat, “Did I not tell you that he would not prophesy good concerning me, but evil?”
1 Kings 22:19 And Micaiah said, “Therefore hear the word of the LORD: and all the host of heaven standing beside him on his right hand and on his left;
1 Kings 22:20 and the LORD said, ‘Who will entice Ahab, that he may go up and fall at Ramoth-gilead?’ And one said one thing, and another said another.
1 Kings 22:21 Then a spirit came forward and stood before the LORD, saying, ‘I will entice him.’
1 Kings 22:22 And the LORD said to him, ‘By what means?’ And he said, ‘I will go out, and will be a lying spirit in the mouth of all his prophets.’ And he said, ‘You are to entice him, and you shall succeed; go out and do so.’
1 Kings 22:23 Now therefore behold, the LORD has put a lying spirit in the mouth of all these your prophets; the LORD has declared disaster for you.”
1 Kings 22:24 Then Zedekiah the son of Chenaanah came near and struck Micaiah on the cheek and said, “How did the Spirit of the LORD go from me to speak to you?”
1 Kings 22:25 And Micaiah said, “Behold, you shall see on that day when you go into an inner chamber to hide yourself.”
1 Kings 22:26 And the king of Israel said, “Seize Micaiah, and take him back to Amon the governor of the city and to Joash the king's son,
1 Kings 22:27 and say, ‘Thus says the king, until I come in peace.”’”
1 Kings 22:28 And Micaiah said, “If you return in peace, “Hear, all you peoples!”
1 Kings 22:29 So the king of Israel and Jehoshaphat the king of Judah went up to Ramoth-gilead.
1 Kings 22:30 And the king of Israel said to Jehoshaphat, “I will disguise myself and go into battle, but you wear your robes.” And the king of Israel disguised himself and went into battle.
1 Kings 22:31 Now the king of Syria had commanded the thirty-two captains of his chariots, “Fight with neither small nor great, but only with the king of Israel.”
1 Kings 22:32 And when the captains of the chariots saw Jehoshaphat, they said, “It is surely the king of Israel.” So they turned to fight against him. And Jehoshaphat cried out.
1 Kings 22:33 And when the captains of the chariots saw that it was not the king of Israel, they turned back from pursuing him.
1 Kings 22:34 But a certain man drew his bow at random for I am wounded.”
1 Kings 22:35 And the battle continued that day, and the king was propped up in his chariot facing the Syrians, until at evening he died. And the blood of the wound flowed into the bottom of the chariot.
1 Kings 22:36 And about sunset a cry went through the army, “Every man to his city, and every man to his country!”
1 Kings 22:37 So the king died, and was brought to Samaria. And they buried the king in Samaria.
1 Kings 22:38 And they washed the chariot by the pool of Samaria, and the dogs licked up his blood, and the prostitutes washed themselves in it, according to the word of the LORD that he had spoken.
1 Kings 22:39 Now the rest of the acts of Ahab and all that he did, and the ivory house that he built and all the cities that he built, are they not written in the Book of the Chronicles of the Kings of Israel?
1 Kings 22:40 So Ahab slept with his fathers, and Ahaziah his son reigned in his place.
1 Kings 22:41  Asa began to reign over Judah in the fourth year of Ahab king of Israel.
1 Kings 22:42 Jehoshaphat was thirty-five years old when he began to reign, and he reigned twenty-five years in Jerusalem. His mother's name was Azubah the daughter of Shilhi.
1 Kings 22:43  the high places were not taken away, and the people still sacrificed and made offerings on the high places.
1 Kings 22:44  Jehoshaphat also made peace with the king of Israel.
1 Kings 22:45 Now the rest of the acts of Jehoshaphat, and his might that he showed, and how he warred, are they not written in the Book of the Chronicles of the Kings of Judah?
1 Kings 22:46 And from the land he exterminated the remnant of the male cult prostitutes who remained in the days of his father Asa.
1 Kings 22:47  There was no king in Edom; a deputy was king.
1 Kings 22:48 Jehoshaphat made Ezion-geber.
1 Kings 22:49 Then Ahaziah the son of Ahab said to Jehoshaphat, “Let my servants go with your servants in the ships,” but Jehoshaphat was not willing.
1 Kings 22:50  And Jehoshaphat slept with his fathers and was buried with his fathers in the city of David his father, and Jehoram his son reigned in his place.
1 Kings 22:51 Ahaziah the son of Ahab began to reign over Israel in Samaria in the seventeenth year of Jehoshaphat king of Judah, and he reigned two years over Israel.
1 Kings 22:52 He did what was evil in the sight of the LORD and walked in the way of his father and in the way of his mother and in the way of Jeroboam the son of Nebat, who made Israel to sin.
1 Kings 22:53  in every way that his father had done.
2 Kings 1:1  rebelled against Israel.
2 Kings 1:2 Now Ahaziah fell through the lattice in his upper chamber in Samaria, and lay sick; so he sent messengers, telling them, “Go, inquire of whether I shall recover from this sickness.”
2 Kings 1:3 But the angel of the LORD said to Elijah Baal-zebub, the god of Ekron?
2 Kings 1:4 Now therefore thus says the LORD, You shall not come down from the bed to which you have gone up, but you shall surely die.’” So Elijah went.
2 Kings 1:5 The messengers returned to the king, and he said to them, “Why have you returned?”
2 Kings 1:6 And they said to him, “There came a man to meet us, and said to us, ‘Go back to the king who sent you, and say to him, Thus says the LORD, Is it because there is no God in Israel that you are sending to inquire of Baal-zebub, the god of Ekron? Therefore you shall not come down from the bed to which you have gone up, but you shall surely die.’”
2 Kings 1:7 He said to them, “What kind of man was he who came to meet you and told you these things?”
2 Kings 1:8 They answered him, “He wore a garment of hair, with a belt of leather about his waist.” And he said, “It is Elijah the Tishbite.”
2 Kings 1:9 Then the king sent to him a captain of fifty men with his fifty. He went up to Elijah, who was sitting on the top of a hill, and said to him, “O man of God, the king says, ‘Come down.’”
2 Kings 1:10 But Elijah answered the captain of fifty, “If I am a man of God, let fire come down from heaven and consume you and your fifty.” Then fire came down from heaven and consumed him and his fifty.
2 Kings 1:11 Again the king sent to him another captain of fifty men with his fifty. And he answered and said to him, “O man of God, this is the king's order, ‘Come down quickly!’”
2 Kings 1:12 But Elijah answered them, “If I am a man of God, let fire come down from heaven and consume you and your fifty.” Then the fire of God came down from heaven and consumed him and his fifty.
2 Kings 1:13 Again the king sent the captain of a third fifty with his fifty. And the third captain of fifty went up and came and fell on his knees before Elijah and entreated him, “O man of God, please let my life, and the life of these fifty servants of yours, be precious in your sight.
2 Kings 1:14 Behold, fire came down from heaven and consumed the two former captains of fifty men with their fifties, but now let my life be precious in your sight.”
2 Kings 1:15 Then the angel of the LORD said to Elijah, “Go down with him; do not be afraid of him.” So he arose and went down with him to the king
2 Kings 1:16 and said to him, “Thus says the LORD, ‘Because you have sent messengers to inquire of Baal-zebub, the god of Ekron — is it because there is no God in Israel to inquire of his word? — therefore you shall not come down from the bed to which you have gone up, but you shall surely die.’”
2 Kings 1:17 So he died according to the word of the LORD that Elijah had spoken. Jehoram became king in his place in the second year of Jehoram the son of Jehoshaphat, king of Judah, because Ahaziah had no son.
2 Kings 1:18 Now the rest of the acts of Ahaziah that he did, are they not written in the Book of the Chronicles of the Kings of Israel?
2 Kings 2:1 Now when the LORD was about to Gilgal.
2 Kings 2:2 And Elijah said to Elisha, “As the LORD lives, and as you yourself live, I will not leave you.” So they went down to Bethel.
2 Kings 2:3 And the sons of the prophets who were in Bethel came out to Elisha and said to him, “Do you know that today the LORD will take away your master from over you?” And he said, “Yes, I know it; keep quiet.”
2 Kings 2:4 Elijah said to him, “Elisha, “As the LORD lives, and as you yourself live, I will not leave you.” So they came to Jericho.
2 Kings 2:5  The sons of the prophets who were at Jericho drew near to Elisha and said to him, “Do you know that today the LORD will take away your master from over you?” And he answered, “Yes, I know it; keep quiet.”
2 Kings 2:6 Then Elijah said to him, “Please stay here, for the LORD has sent me to the Jordan.” But he said, “As the LORD lives, and as you yourself live, I will not leave you.” So the two of them went on.
2 Kings 2:7 Fifty men of the sons of the prophets also went and stood at some distance from them, as they both were standing by the Jordan.
2 Kings 2:8 Then Elijah and the water was parted to the one side and to the other, till the two of them could go over on dry ground.
2 Kings 2:9 When they had crossed, Elijah said to Elisha, “Ask what I shall do for you, before I am taken from you.” And Elisha said, “Please let there be a double portion of your spirit on me.”
2 Kings 2:10 And he said, “You have asked a hard thing; yet, if you see me as I am being taken from you, it shall be so for you, but if you do not see me, it shall not be so.”
2 Kings 2:11 And as they still went on and talked, behold, chariots of fire and horses of fire separated the two of them. And Elijah went up by a whirlwind into heaven.
2 Kings 2:12 And Elisha saw it and he cried, “My father, my father! and tore them in two pieces.
2 Kings 2:13 And he took up the cloak of Elijah that had fallen from him and went back and stood on the bank of the Jordan.
2 Kings 2:14 Then he took the cloak of Elijah that had fallen from him and struck the water, saying, “Where is the LORD, the God of Elijah?” And when he had struck the water, the water was parted to the one side and to the other, and Elisha went over.
2 Kings 2:15 Now when the sons of the prophets who were at Jericho saw him opposite them, they said, “The spirit of Elijah rests on Elisha.” And they came to meet him and bowed to the ground before him.
2 Kings 2:16 And they said to him, “Behold now, there are with your servants fifty strong men. Please let them go and seek your master. It may be that the Spirit of the LORD has caught him up and cast him upon some mountain or into some valley.” And he said, “You shall not send.”
2 Kings 2:17 But when they urged him till he was ashamed, he said, “Send.” They sent therefore fifty men. And for three days they sought him but did not find him.
2 Kings 2:18 And they came back to him while he was staying at Jericho, and he said to them, “Did I not say to you, ‘Do not go’?”
2 Kings 2:19 Now the men of the city said to Elisha, “Behold, the situation of this city is pleasant, as my lord sees, but the water is bad, and the land is unfruitful.”
2 Kings 2:20 He said, “Bring me a new bowl, and put salt in it.” So they brought it to him.
2 Kings 2:21 Then he went to the spring of water and threw salt in it and said, “Thus says the LORD, I have healed this water; from now on neither death nor miscarriage shall come from it.”
2 Kings 2:22 So the water has been healed to this day, according to the word that Elisha spoke.
2 Kings 2:23 He went up from there to Bethel, and while he was going up on the way, some small boys came out of the city and jeered at him, saying, “Go up, you baldhead! Go up, you baldhead!”
2 Kings 2:24 And he turned around, and when he saw them, he cursed them in the name of the LORD. And two she-bears came out of the woods and tore forty-two of the boys.
2 Kings 2:25 From there he went on to to Samaria.
2 Kings 3:1  In the eighteenth year of Jehoshaphat king of Judah, Jehoram the son of Ahab became king over Israel in Samaria, and he reigned twelve years.
2 Kings 3:2 He did what was evil in the sight of the LORD, though not like his father and mother, for he put away the that his father had made.
2 Kings 3:3 Nevertheless, he clung to which he made Israel to sin; he did not depart from it.
2 Kings 3:4 Now Mesha king of Moab was a sheep breeder, and he had to deliver to the king of Israel 100,000 lambs and the wool of 100,000 rams.
2 Kings 3:5 But when Ahab died, the king of Moab rebelled against the king of Israel.
2 Kings 3:6 So King Jehoram marched out of Samaria at that time and mustered all Israel.
2 Kings 3:7 And he went and sent word to Jehoshaphat king of Judah: “The king of Moab has rebelled against me. Will you go with me to battle against Moab?” And he said, “I will go. I am as you are, my people as your people, my horses as your horses.”
2 Kings 3:8 Then he said, “By which way shall we march?” Jehoram answered, “By the way of the wilderness of Edom.”
2 Kings 3:9 So the king of Israel went with the king of Judah and the king of Edom. And when they had made a circuitous march of seven days, there was no water for the army or for the animals that followed them.
2 Kings 3:10 Then the king of Israel said, “Alas! The LORD has called these three kings to give them into the hand of Moab.”
2 Kings 3:11  who poured water on the hands of Elijah.”
2 Kings 3:12 And Jehoshaphat said, “The word of the LORD is with him.” So the king of Israel and Jehoshaphat and the king of Edom went down to him.
2 Kings 3:13 And Elisha said to the king of Israel, the LORD who has called these three kings to give them into the hand of Moab.”
2 Kings 3:14 And Elisha said, “As the LORD of hosts lives, before whom I stand, were it not that I have regard for Jehoshaphat the king of Judah, I would neither look at you nor see you.
2 Kings 3:15 But now the hand of the LORD came upon him.
2 Kings 3:16 And he said, “Thus says the LORD, ‘I will make this dry streambed full of pools.’
2 Kings 3:17 For thus says the LORD, ‘You shall not see wind or rain, but that streambed shall be filled with water, so that you shall drink, you, your livestock, and your animals.’
2 Kings 3:18 This is a light thing in the sight of the LORD. He will also give the Moabites into your hand,
2 Kings 3:19 and you shall attack every fortified city and every choice city, and shall fell every good tree and stop up all springs of water and ruin every good piece of land with stones.”
2 Kings 3:20 The next morning, about the time of offering the sacrifice, behold, water came from the direction of Edom, till the country was filled with water.
2 Kings 3:21 When all the Moabites heard that the kings had come up to fight against them, all who were able to put on armor, from the youngest to the oldest, were called out and were drawn up at the border.
2 Kings 3:22 And when they rose early in the morning and the sun shone on the water, the Moabites saw the water opposite them as red as blood.
2 Kings 3:23 And they said, “This is blood; the kings have surely fought together and struck one another down. Now then, Moab, to the spoil!”
2 Kings 3:24 But when they came to the camp of Israel, the Israelites rose and struck the Moabites, till they fled before them. And they went forward, striking the Moabites as they went.
2 Kings 3:25 And they overthrew the cities, and Kir-hareseth, and the slingers surrounded and attacked it.
2 Kings 3:26 When the king of Moab saw that the battle was going against him, he took with him 700 swordsmen to break through, opposite the king of Edom, but they could not.
2 Kings 3:27 Then he took his oldest son who was to reign in his place and offered him for a burnt offering on the wall. And there came great wrath against Israel. And they withdrew from him and returned to their own land.
2 Kings 4:1 Now the wife of one of the but the creditor has come to take my two children to be his slaves.”
2 Kings 4:2 And Elisha said to her, “What shall I do for you? Tell me; what have you in the house?” And she said, “Your servant has nothing in the house except a jar of oil.”
2 Kings 4:3 Then he said, “Go outside, borrow vessels from all your neighbors, empty vessels and not too few.
2 Kings 4:4 Then go in and shut the door behind yourself and your sons and pour into all these vessels. And when one is full, set it aside.”
2 Kings 4:5 So she went from him and shut the door behind herself and her sons. And as she poured they brought the vessels to her.
2 Kings 4:6 When the vessels were full, she said to her son, “Bring me another vessel.” And he said to her, “There is not another.” Then the oil stopped flowing.
2 Kings 4:7 She came and told the man of God, and he said, “Go, sell the oil and pay your debts, and you and your sons can live on the rest.”
2 Kings 4:8 One day Elisha went on to wealthy woman lived, who urged him to eat some food. So whenever he passed that way, he would turn in there to eat food.
2 Kings 4:9 And she said to her husband, “Behold now, I know that this is a holy man of God who is continually passing our way.
2 Kings 4:10 Let us make a small room on the roof with walls and put there for him a bed, a table, a chair, and a lamp, so that whenever he comes to us, he can go in there.”
2 Kings 4:11 One day he came there, and he turned into the chamber and rested there.
2 Kings 4:12 And he said to Gehazi his servant, “Call this Shunammite.” When he had called her, she stood before him.
2 Kings 4:13 And he said to him, “Say now to her, ‘See, you have taken all this trouble for us; what is to be done for you? Would you have a word spoken on your behalf to the king or to the commander of the army?’” She answered, “I dwell among my own people.”
2 Kings 4:14 And he said, “What then is to be done for her?” Gehazi answered, “Well, she has no son, and her husband is old.”
2 Kings 4:15 He said, “Call her.” And when he had called her, she stood in the doorway.
2 Kings 4:16 And he said, “At this season, do not lie to your servant.”
2 Kings 4:17 But the woman conceived, and she bore a son about that time the following spring, as Elisha had said to her.
2 Kings 4:18 When the child had grown, he went out one day to his father among the reapers.
2 Kings 4:19 And he said to his father, “Oh, my head, my head!” The father said to his servant, “Carry him to his mother.”
2 Kings 4:20 And when he had lifted him and brought him to his mother, the child sat on her lap till noon, and then he died.
2 Kings 4:21 And she went up man of God and shut the door behind him and went out.
2 Kings 4:22 Then she called to her husband and said, “Send me one of the servants and one of the donkeys, that I may quickly go to the man of God and come back again.”
2 Kings 4:23 And he said, “Why will you go to him today? It is neither new moon nor Sabbath.” She said, “All is well.”
2 Kings 4:24 Then she saddled the donkey, and she said to her servant, “Urge the animal on; do not slacken the pace for me unless I tell you.”
2 Kings 4:25 So she set out and came to the man of God at Mount Carmel. When the man of God saw her coming, he said to Gehazi his servant, “Look, there is the Shunammite.
2 Kings 4:26 Run at once to meet her and say to her, ‘Is all well with you? Is all well with your husband? Is all well with the child?’” And she answered, “All is well.”
2 Kings 4:27 And when she came to the mountain to the man of God, she caught hold of his feet. And Gehazi came to push her away. But the man of God said, “Leave her alone, for she is in bitter distress, and the LORD has hidden it from me and has not told me.”
2 Kings 4:28 Then she said, “Did I ask my lord for a son? Did I not say, ‘Do not deceive me?’”
2 Kings 4:29 He said to Gehazi, lay my staff on the face of the child.”
2 Kings 4:30 Then the mother of the child said, “As the LORD lives and as you yourself live, I will not leave you.” So he arose and followed her.
2 Kings 4:31 Gehazi went on ahead and laid the staff on the face of the child, but there was no sound or sign of life. Therefore he returned to meet him and told him, “The child has not awakened.”
2 Kings 4:32 When Elisha came into the house, he saw the child lying dead on his bed.
2 Kings 4:33 So he went in and and prayed to the LORD.
2 Kings 4:34 Then he went up and lay on the child, putting his mouth on his mouth, his eyes on his eyes, and his hands on his hands. And as he stretched himself upon him, the flesh of the child became warm.
2 Kings 4:35 Then he got up again and walked once back and forth in the house, and went up and stretched himself upon him. The child sneezed seven times, and the child opened his eyes.
2 Kings 4:36 Then he summoned Gehazi and said, “Call this Shunammite.” So he called her. And when she came to him, he said, “Pick up your son.”
2 Kings 4:37 She came and fell at his feet, bowing to the ground. Then she picked up her son and went out.
2 Kings 4:38 And Elisha came again to “Set on the large pot, and boil stew for the sons of the prophets.”
2 Kings 4:39 One of them went out into the field to gather herbs, and found a wild vine and gathered from it his lap full of wild gourds, and came and cut them up into the pot of stew, not knowing what they were.
2 Kings 4:40 And they poured out some for the men to eat. But while they were eating of the stew, they cried out, “O man of God, there is death in the pot!” And they could not eat it.
2 Kings 4:41 He said, “Then bring flour.” And he threw it into the pot and said, “Pour some out for the men, that they may eat.” And there was no harm in the pot.
2 Kings 4:42 A man came from “Give to the men, that they may eat.”
2 Kings 4:43 But his servant said, “How can I set this before a hundred men?” So he repeated, “Give them to the men, that they may eat, for thus says the LORD, ‘They shall eat and have some left.’”
2 Kings 4:44 So he set it before them. And they ate and had some left, according to the word of the LORD.
2 Kings 5:1
2 Kings 5:2 Now the Syrians on one of their raids had carried off a little girl from the land of Israel, and she worked in the service of Naaman's wife.
2 Kings 5:3 She said to her mistress, “Would that my lord were with the prophet who is in Samaria! He would cure him of his leprosy.”
2 Kings 5:4 So Naaman went in and told his lord, “Thus and so spoke the girl from the land of Israel.”
2 Kings 5:5 And the king of Syria said, “Go now, and I will send a letter to the king of Israel.” So he went, changes of clothing.
2 Kings 5:6 And he brought the letter to the king of Israel, which read, “When this letter reaches you, know that I have sent to you Naaman my servant, that you may cure him of his leprosy.”
2 Kings 5:7 And when the king of Israel read the letter, consider, and see how he is seeking a quarrel with me.”
2 Kings 5:8 But when Elisha the man of God heard that the king of Israel had torn his clothes, he sent to the king, saying, “Why have you torn your clothes? Let him come now to me, that he may know that there is a prophet in Israel.”
2 Kings 5:9 So Naaman came with his horses and chariots and stood at the door of Elisha's house.
2 Kings 5:10 And Elisha sent a messenger to him, saying, “Go and wash in the Jordan seven times, and your flesh shall be restored, and you shall be clean.”
2 Kings 5:11 But Naaman was angry and went away, saying, “Behold, I thought that he would surely come out to me and stand and call upon the name of the LORD his God, and wave his hand over the place and cure the leper.
2 Kings 5:12 Are not Abana Damascus, better than all the waters of Israel? Could I not wash in them and be clean?” So he turned and went away in a rage.
2 Kings 5:13 But his servants came near and said to him, “My father, it is a great word the prophet has spoken to you; will you not do it? Has he actually said to you, ‘Wash, and be clean’?”
2 Kings 5:14 So he went down and dipped himself seven times in the Jordan, according to the word of the man of God, and he was clean.
2 Kings 5:15 Then he returned to the man of God, he and all his company, and he came and stood before him. And he said, “Behold, I know that accept now a present from your servant.”
2 Kings 5:16 But he said, I will receive none.” And he urged him to take it, but he refused.
2 Kings 5:17 Then Naaman said, “If not, please let there be given to your servant two mule loads of earth, for from now on your servant will not offer burnt offering or sacrifice to any god but the LORD.
2 Kings 5:18 In this matter may the LORD pardon your servant: when my master goes into the house of leaning on my arm, and I bow myself in the house of Rimmon, when I bow myself in the house of Rimmon, the LORD pardon your servant in this matter.”
2 Kings 5:19 He said to him, “Go in peace.” But when Naaman had gone from him a short distance,
2 Kings 5:20  As the LORD lives, I will run after him and get something from him.”
2 Kings 5:21 So Gehazi followed Naaman. And when Naaman saw someone running after him, he got down from the chariot to meet him and said, “Is all well?”
2 Kings 5:22 And he said, “All is well. My master has sent me to say, ‘There have just now come to me from two changes of clothing.’”
2 Kings 5:23 And Naaman said, “Be pleased to accept two talents.” And he urged him and tied up two talents of silver in two bags, with two changes of clothing, and laid them on two of his servants. And they carried them before Gehazi.
2 Kings 5:24 And when he came to the hill, he took them from their hand and put them in the house, and he sent the men away, and they departed.
2 Kings 5:25 He went in and stood before his master, and Elisha said to him, “Where have you been, Gehazi?” And he said, “Your servant went nowhere.”
2 Kings 5:26 But he said to him, “Did not my heart go when the man turned from his chariot to meet you? Was it a time to accept money and garments, olive orchards and vineyards, sheep and oxen, male servants and female servants?
2 Kings 5:27 Therefore the leprosy of Naaman shall cling to you and to your descendants forever.” So he went out from his presence a leper, like snow.
2 Kings 6:1 Now the sons of the prophets said to Elisha, “See, the place where we dwell under your charge is too small for us.
2 Kings 6:2 Let us go to the Jordan and each of us get there a log, and let us make a place for us to dwell there.” And he answered, “Go.”
2 Kings 6:3 Then one of them said, “Be pleased to go with your servants.” And he answered, “I will go.”
2 Kings 6:4 So he went with them. And when they came to the Jordan, they cut down trees.
2 Kings 6:5 But as one was felling a log, his axe head fell into the water, and he cried out, “Alas, my master! It was borrowed.”
2 Kings 6:6 Then the man of God said, “Where did it fall?” When he showed him the place, he cut off a stick and threw it in there and made the iron float.
2 Kings 6:7 And he said, “Take it up.” So he reached out his hand and took it.
2 Kings 6:8 Once when the king of Syria was warring against Israel, he took counsel with his servants, saying, “At such and such a place shall be my camp.”
2 Kings 6:9 But the man of God sent word to the king of Israel, “Beware that you do not pass this place, for the Syrians are going down there.”
2 Kings 6:10 And the king of Israel sent to the place about which the man of God told him. Thus he used to warn him, so that he saved himself there more than once or twice.
2 Kings 6:11 And the mind of the king of Syria was greatly troubled because of this thing, and he called his servants and said to them, “Will you not show me who of us is for the king of Israel?”
2 Kings 6:12 And one of his servants said, “None, my lord, O king; but Elisha, the prophet who is in Israel, tells the king of Israel the words that you speak in your bedroom.”
2 Kings 6:13 And he said, “Go and see where he is, that I may send and seize him.” It was told him, “Behold, he is in Dothan.”
2 Kings 6:14 So he sent there horses and chariots and a great army, and they came by night and surrounded the city.
2 Kings 6:15 When the servant of the man of God rose early in the morning and went out, behold, an army with horses and chariots was all around the city. And the servant said, “Alas, my master! What shall we do?”
2 Kings 6:16 He said, “Do not be afraid, for those who are with us are more than those who are with them.”
2 Kings 6:17 Then Elisha prayed and said, “O LORD, please horses and chariots of fire all around Elisha.
2 Kings 6:18 And when the Syrians came down against him, Elisha prayed to the LORD and said, “Please strike this people with blindness.” So he struck them with blindness in accordance with the prayer of Elisha.
2 Kings 6:19 And Elisha said to them, “This is not the way, and this is not the city. Follow me, and I will bring you to the man whom you seek.” And he led them to Samaria.
2 Kings 6:20 As soon as they entered Samaria, Elisha said, “O LORD, open the eyes of these men, that they may see.” So the LORD opened their eyes and they saw, and behold, they were in the midst of Samaria.
2 Kings 6:21 As soon as the king of Israel saw them, he said to Elisha, “My father, shall I strike them down? Shall I strike them down?”
2 Kings 6:22 He answered, “You shall not strike them down. Would you strike down those whom you have taken captive Set bread and water before them, that they may eat and drink and go to their master.”
2 Kings 6:23 So he prepared for them a great feast, and when they had eaten and drunk, he sent them away, and they went to their master. And the Syrians did not come again on raids into the land of Israel.
2 Kings 6:24 Afterward Ben-hadad king of Syria mustered his entire army and went up and besieged Samaria.
2 Kings 6:25 And there was a great famine in Samaria, as they besieged it, until a donkey's head was sold for eighty shekels of silver, and the fourth part of a kab  of dove's dung for five shekels of silver.
2 Kings 6:26 Now as the king of Israel was passing by on the wall, a woman cried out to him, saying, “Help, my lord, O king!”
2 Kings 6:27 And he said, “If the LORD will not help you, how shall I help you? From the threshing floor, or from the winepress?”
2 Kings 6:28 And the king asked her, “What is your trouble?” She answered, “This woman said to me, ‘Give your son, that we may eat him today, and we will eat my son tomorrow.’
2 Kings 6:29  So we boiled my son and ate him. And on the next day I said to her, ‘Give your son, that we may eat him.’ But she has hidden her son.”
2 Kings 6:30 When the king heard the words of the woman, he had sackcloth beneath on his body —
2 Kings 6:31 and he said, “May God do so to me and more also, if the head of Elisha the son of Shaphat remains on his shoulders today.”
2 Kings 6:32 Elisha was sitting in his house, murderer has sent to take off my head? Look, when the messenger comes, shut the door and hold the door fast against him. Is not the sound of his master's feet behind him?”
2 Kings 6:33 And while he was still speaking with them, the messenger came down to him and said, “This trouble is from the LORD! Why should I wait for the LORD any longer?”
2 Kings 7:1 But Elisha said, “Hear the word of the LORD: thus says the LORD,  and two seahs of barley for a shekel, at the gate of Samaria.”
2 Kings 7:2 Then “If the LORD himself should make windows in heaven, could this thing be?” But he said, “You shall see it with your own eyes, but you shall not eat of it.”
2 Kings 7:3 Now there were four men who were lepers at the entrance to the gate. And they said to one another, “Why are we sitting here until we die?
2 Kings 7:4 If we say, ‘Let us enter the city,’ the famine is in the city, and we shall die there. And if we sit here, we die also. So now come, let us go over to the camp of the Syrians. If they spare our lives we shall live, and if they kill us we shall but die.”
2 Kings 7:5 So they arose at twilight to go to the camp of the Syrians. But when they came to the edge of the camp of the Syrians, behold, there was no one there.
2 Kings 7:6 For the Lord had made the army of the Syrians the kings of the Hittites and the kings of Egypt to come against us.”
2 Kings 7:7  So they fled away in the twilight and abandoned their tents, their horses, and their donkeys, leaving the camp as it was, and fled for their lives.
2 Kings 7:8 And when these lepers came to the edge of the camp, they went into a tent and ate and drank, and they carried off silver and gold and clothing and went and hid them. Then they came back and entered another tent and carried off things from it and went and hid them.
2 Kings 7:9 Then they said to one another, “We are not doing right. This day is a day of good news. If we are silent and wait until the morning light, punishment will overtake us. Now therefore come; let us go and tell the king's household.”
2 Kings 7:10 So they came and called to the gatekeepers of the city and told them, “We came to the camp of the Syrians, and behold, there was no one to be seen or heard there, nothing but the horses tied and the donkeys tied and the tents as they were.”
2 Kings 7:11 Then the gatekeepers called out, and it was told within the king's household.
2 Kings 7:12 And the king rose in the night and said to his servants, “I will tell you what the Syrians have done to us. They know that we are hungry. Therefore they have gone out of the camp to hide themselves in the open country, thinking, ‘When they come out of the city, we shall take them alive and get into the city.’”
2 Kings 7:13 And one of his servants said, “Let some men take five of the remaining horses, seeing that those who are left here will fare like the whole multitude of Israel who have already perished. Let us send and see.”
2 Kings 7:14 So they took two horsemen, and the king sent them after the army of the Syrians, saying, “Go and see.”
2 Kings 7:15 So they went after them as far as the Jordan, and behold, all the way was littered with garments and equipment that the Syrians had thrown away in their haste. And the messengers returned and told the king.
2 Kings 7:16 Then the people went out and plundered the camp of the Syrians. So a seah of fine flour was sold for a shekel, and two seahs of barley for a shekel, according to the word of the LORD.
2 Kings 7:17 Now the king had appointed when the king came down to him.
2 Kings 7:18 For when the man of God had said to the king, “Two seahs of barley shall be sold for a shekel, and a seah of fine flour for a shekel, about this time tomorrow in the gate of Samaria,”
2 Kings 7:19  “You shall see it with your own eyes, but you shall not eat of it.”
2 Kings 7:20 And so it happened to him, for the people trampled him in the gate and he died.
2 Kings 8:1 Now Elisha had said to the woman seven years.”
2 Kings 8:2 So the woman arose and did according to the word of the man of God. She went with her household and sojourned in the land of the Philistines seven years.
2 Kings 8:3 And at the end of the seven years, when the woman returned from the land of the Philistines, she went to appeal to the king for her house and her land.
2 Kings 8:4 Now the king was talking with Gehazi the servant of the man of God, saying, “Tell me all the great things that Elisha has done.”
2 Kings 8:5 And while he was telling the king how Elisha had restored the dead to life, behold, the woman whose son he had restored to life appealed to the king for her house and her land. And Gehazi said, “My lord, O king, here is the woman, and here is her son whom Elisha restored to life.”
2 Kings 8:6 And when the king asked the woman, she told him. So the king appointed an official for her, saying, “Restore all that was hers, together with all the produce of the fields from the day that she left the land until now.”
2 Kings 8:7 Now Elisha came to Ben-hadad the king of Syria was sick. And when it was told him, “The man of God has come here,”
2 Kings 8:8 the king said to and inquire of the LORD through him, saying, ‘Shall I recover from this sickness?’”
2 Kings 8:9 So Hazael went to meet him, and took a present with him, all kinds of goods of Damascus, forty camels' loads. When he came and stood before him, he said, “Your son Ben-hadad king of Syria has sent me to you, saying, ‘Shall I recover from this sickness?’”
2 Kings 8:10 And Elisha said to him, he shall certainly die.”
2 Kings 8:11 And he fixed his gaze and stared at him, until he was embarrassed. And the man of God wept.
2 Kings 8:12 And Hazael said, “Why does my lord weep?” He answered, “Because I know and dash in pieces their little ones and rip open their pregnant women.”
2 Kings 8:13 And Hazael said, “What is your servant, “The LORD has shown me that you are to be king over Syria.”
2 Kings 8:14 Then he departed from Elisha and came to his master, who said to him, “What did Elisha say to you?” And he answered, “He told me that you would certainly recover.”
2 Kings 8:15 But the next day he took the bed cloth  and dipped it in water and spread it over his face, till he died. And Hazael became king in his place.
2 Kings 8:16 In the fifth year of  Jehoram the son of Jehoshaphat, king of Judah, began to reign.
2 Kings 8:17 He was thirty-two years old when he became king, and he reigned eight years in Jerusalem.
2 Kings 8:18 And he walked in the way of the kings of Israel, as the house of Ahab had done, for the daughter of Ahab was his wife. And he did what was evil in the sight of the LORD.
2 Kings 8:19 Yet the LORD was not willing to destroy Judah, for the sake of David his servant, a lamp to him and to his sons forever.
2 Kings 8:20 In his days Edom revolted from the rule of Judah and set up a king of their own.
2 Kings 8:21 Then Joram fled home.
2 Kings 8:22  Libnah revolted at the same time.
2 Kings 8:23 Now the rest of the acts of Joram, and all that he did, are they not written in the Book of the Chronicles of the Kings of Judah?
2 Kings 8:24 So Joram slept with his fathers and was buried Ahaziah his son reigned in his place.
2 Kings 8:25  twelfth year of Joram the son of Ahab, king of Israel, Ahaziah the son of Jehoram, king of Judah, began to reign.
2 Kings 8:26 Ahaziah was a granddaughter of Omri king of Israel.
2 Kings 8:27 He also walked in the way of the house of Ahab and did what was evil in the sight of the LORD, as the house of Ahab had done, for he was son-in-law to the house of Ahab.
2 Kings 8:28 He went with Joram the son of Ahab to make war against Ramoth-gilead, and the Syrians wounded Joram.
2 Kings 8:29  Ahaziah the son of Jehoram king of Judah went down to see Joram the son of Ahab in Jezreel, because he was sick.
2 Kings 9:1 Then Elisha the prophet called one of Ramoth-gilead.
2 Kings 9:2 And when you arrive, look there for Jehu his fellows, and lead him to an inner chamber.
2 Kings 9:3 Then take the flask of oil and pour it on his head and say, ‘Thus says the LORD, I anoint you king over Israel.’ Then open the door and flee; do not linger.”
2 Kings 9:4 So the young man, the servant of the prophet, went to Ramoth-gilead.
2 Kings 9:5 And when he came, behold, the commanders of the army were in council. And he said, “I have a word for you, O commander.” And Jehu said, “To which of us all?” And he said, “To you, O commander.”
2 Kings 9:6 So he arose and went into the house. And the young man poured the oil on his head, saying to him, “Thus says the LORD, the God of Israel, I anoint you king over the people of the LORD, over Israel.
2 Kings 9:7 And you shall strike down the house of Ahab your master, so that I may avenge on Jezebel the blood of my servants the prophets, and the blood of all the servants of the LORD.
2 Kings 9:8 For the whole house of Ahab shall perish, bond or free, in Israel.
2 Kings 9:9 And I will make the house of Ahab like the house of Baasha the son of Ahijah.
2 Kings 9:10  And the dogs shall eat Jezebel in the territory of Jezreel, and none shall bury her.” Then he opened the door and fled.
2 Kings 9:11 When Jehu came out to the servants of his master, they said to him, this mad fellow come to you?” And he said to them, “You know the fellow and his talk.”
2 Kings 9:12 And they said, “That is not true; tell us now.” And he said, “Thus and so he spoke to me, saying, ‘Thus says the LORD, I anoint you king over Israel.’”
2 Kings 9:13 Then in haste “Jehu is king.”
2 Kings 9:14 Thus Jehu the son of Jehoshaphat the son of Nimshi conspired against Joram. ( Hazael king of Syria,
2 Kings 9:15  but King Joram had returned to be healed in Jezreel of the wounds that the Syrians had given him, when he fought with Hazael king of Syria.) So Jehu said, “If this is your decision, then let no one slip out of the city to go and tell the news in Jezreel.”
2 Kings 9:16 Then Jehu mounted his chariot and went to Jezreel, for Joram lay there. And Ahaziah king of Judah had come down to visit Joram.
2 Kings 9:17 Now the watchman was standing on the tower in Jezreel, and he saw the company of Jehu as he came and said, “I see a company.” And Joram said, “Take a horseman and send to meet them, and let him say, ‘Is it peace?’”
2 Kings 9:18 So a man on horseback went to meet him and said, “Thus says the king, ‘Is it peace?’” And Jehu said, “What do you have to do with peace? Turn around and ride behind me.” And the watchman reported, saying, “The messenger reached them, but he is not coming back.”
2 Kings 9:19 Then he sent out a second horseman, who came to them and said, “Thus the king has said, ‘Is it peace?’” And Jehu answered, “What do you have to do with peace? Turn around and ride behind me.”
2 Kings 9:20 Again the watchman reported, “He reached them, but he is not coming back. And the driving the son of Nimshi, for he drives furiously.”
2 Kings 9:21 Joram said, at the property of Naboth the Jezreelite.
2 Kings 9:22 And when Joram saw Jehu, he said, “Is it peace, Jehu?” He answered, “What peace can there be, so long as the whorings and the sorceries of your mother Jezebel are so many?”
2 Kings 9:23 Then Joram reined about and fled, saying to Ahaziah, “Treachery, O Ahaziah!”
2 Kings 9:24 And Jehu drew his bow with his full strength, and shot Joram between the shoulders, so that the arrow pierced his heart, and he sank in his chariot.
2 Kings 9:25 Jehu said to Bidkar pronouncement against him:
2 Kings 9:26 ‘As surely as I saw yesterday the blood of Naboth and the blood of his sons — declares the LORD — I will repay you on this plot of ground.’ Now therefore take him up and throw him on the plot of ground, in accordance with the word of the LORD.”
2 Kings 9:27  Megiddo and died there.
2 Kings 9:28  His servants carried him in a chariot to Jerusalem, and buried him in his tomb with his fathers in the city of David.
2 Kings 9:29 In the eleventh year of Joram the son of Ahab, Ahaziah began to reign over Judah.
2 Kings 9:30 When Jehu came to Jezreel, Jezebel heard of it. And she painted her eyes and adorned her head and looked out of the window.
2 Kings 9:31 And as Jehu entered the gate, she said, “Is it peace, you Zimri, murderer of your master?”
2 Kings 9:32 And he lifted up his face to the window and said, “Who is on my side? Who?” Two or three eunuchs looked out at him.
2 Kings 9:33 He said, “Throw her down.” So they threw her down. And some of her blood spattered on the wall and on the horses, and they trampled on her.
2 Kings 9:34 Then he went in and ate and drank. And he said, “See now to this cursed woman and bury her, for she is a king's daughter.”
2 Kings 9:35 But when they went to bury her, they found no more of her than the skull and the feet and the palms of her hands.
2 Kings 9:36 When they came back and told him, he said, “This is the word of the LORD, which he spoke by his servant Elijah the Tishbite: ‘In the territory of Jezreel the dogs shall eat the flesh of Jezebel,
2 Kings 9:37 and the corpse of Jezebel shall be as dung on the face of the field in the territory of Jezreel, so that no one can say, This is Jezebel.’”
2 Kings 10:1 Now Ahab had seventy sons in  of Ahab, saying,
2 Kings 10:2 “Now then, as soon as this letter comes to you, seeing your master's sons are with you, and there are with you chariots and horses, fortified cities also, and weapons,
2 Kings 10:3 select the best and fittest of your master's sons and set him on his father's throne and fight for your master's house.”
2 Kings 10:4 But they were exceedingly afraid and said, “Behold, the two kings could not stand before him. How then can we stand?”
2 Kings 10:5 So he who was over the palace, and he who was over the city, together with the elders and the guardians, sent to Jehu, saying, “We are your servants, and we will do all that you tell us. We will not make anyone king. Do whatever is good in your eyes.”
2 Kings 10:6 Then he wrote to them a second letter, saying, “If you are on my side, and if you are ready to obey me, take the heads of your master's sons and come to me at Jezreel tomorrow at this time.” Now the king's sons, seventy persons, were with the great men of the city, who were bringing them up.
2 Kings 10:7 And as soon as the letter came to them, they took the king's sons and slaughtered them, seventy persons, and put their heads in baskets and sent them to him at Jezreel.
2 Kings 10:8 When the messenger came and told him, “They have brought the heads of the king's sons,” he said, “Lay them in two heaps at the entrance of the gate until the morning.”
2 Kings 10:9 Then in the morning, when he went out, he stood and said to all the people, “You are innocent. It was I who conspired against my master and killed him, but who struck down all these?
2 Kings 10:10 Know then that there shall what he said by his servant Elijah.”
2 Kings 10:11 So Jehu struck down all who remained of the house of Ahab in Jezreel, all his great men and his close friends and his priests, until he left him none remaining.
2 Kings 10:12 Then he set out and went to Samaria. On the way, when he was at Beth-eked of the Shepherds,
2 Kings 10:13 Jehu met the relatives of Ahaziah king of Judah, and he said, “Who are you?” And they answered, “We are the relatives of Ahaziah, and we came down to visit the royal princes and the sons of the queen mother.”
2 Kings 10:14 He said, “Take them alive.” And they took them alive and slaughtered them at the pit of Beth-eked, forty-two persons, and he spared none of them.
2 Kings 10:15 And when he departed from there, he met give me your hand.” So he gave him his hand. And Jehu took him up with him into the chariot.
2 Kings 10:16 And he said, “Come with me, and see  had him ride in his chariot.
2 Kings 10:17 And when he came to Samaria, that he spoke to Elijah.
2 Kings 10:18 Then Jehu assembled all the people and said to them, “Ahab served Baal a little, but Jehu will serve him much.
2 Kings 10:19 Now therefore call to me all the prophets of Baal, all his worshipers and all his priests. Let none be missing, for I have a great sacrifice to offer to Baal. Whoever is missing shall not live.” But Jehu did it with cunning in order to destroy the worshipers of Baal.
2 Kings 10:20 And Jehu ordered, they proclaimed it.
2 Kings 10:21 And Jehu sent throughout all Israel, and all the worshipers of Baal came, so that there was not a man left who did not come. And they entered the house of Baal, and the house of Baal was filled from one end to the other.
2 Kings 10:22 He said to him who was in charge of the wardrobe, “Bring out the vestments for all the worshipers of Baal.” So he brought out the vestments for them.
2 Kings 10:23 Then Jehu went into the house of Baal with Jehonadab the son of Rechab, and he said to the worshipers of Baal, “Search, and see that there is no servant of the LORD here among you, but only the worshipers of Baal.”
2 Kings 10:24 Then they shall forfeit his life.”
2 Kings 10:25 So as soon as he had made an end of offering the burnt offering, Jehu said to the guard and to the officers, “Go in and strike them down; let not a man escape.” So when they put them to the sword, the guard and the officers cast them out and went into the inner room of the house of Baal,
2 Kings 10:26 and they brought out the the house of Baal and burned it.
2 Kings 10:27 And they demolished the a latrine to this day.
2 Kings 10:28 Thus Jehu wiped out Baal from Israel.
2 Kings 10:29 But Jehu did not turn aside from which he made Israel to sin — that is, the golden calves that were in Bethel and in Dan.
2 Kings 10:30 And the LORD said to Jehu, “Because you have done well in carrying out what is right in my eyes, and have done to the house of Ahab according to all that was in my heart, your sons of the fourth generation shall sit on the throne of Israel.”
2 Kings 10:31 But Jehu was not careful to walk in the law of the LORD, the God of Israel, with all his heart. He did not turn from the sins of Jeroboam, which he made Israel to sin.
2 Kings 10:32 In those days the LORD Hazael defeated them throughout the territory of Israel:
2 Kings 10:33 from the Jordan eastward, all the land of Gilead, the Gadites, and the Reubenites, and the Manassites, from Gilead and Bashan.
2 Kings 10:34 Now the rest of the acts of Jehu and all that he did, and all his might, are they not written in the Book of the Chronicles of the Kings of Israel?
2 Kings 10:35 So Jehu slept with his fathers, and they buried him in Samaria. And Jehoahaz his son reigned in his place.
2 Kings 10:36 The time that Jehu reigned over Israel in Samaria was twenty-eight years.
2 Kings 11:1  Athaliah the mother of Ahaziah saw that her son was dead, she arose and destroyed all the royal family.
2 Kings 11:2 But Jehosheba, the daughter of King Joram, sister of Ahaziah, took  hid him from Athaliah, so that he was not put to death.
2 Kings 11:3 And he remained with her six years, hidden in the house of the LORD, while Athaliah reigned over the land.
2 Kings 11:4  the Carites and of the guards, and had them come to him in the house of the LORD. And he made a covenant with them and put them under oath in the house of the LORD, and he showed them the king's son.
2 Kings 11:5 And he commanded them, “This is the thing that you shall do: one third of you, those who come off duty on the Sabbath and guard the king's house
2 Kings 11:6 (
2 Kings 11:7 And the two divisions of you, which come on duty in force on the Sabbath and guard the house of the LORD on behalf of the king,
2 Kings 11:8 shall surround the king, each with his weapons in his hand. And whoever approaches the ranks is to be put to death. Be with the king when he goes out and when he comes in.”
2 Kings 11:9 The captains did according to all that Jehoiada the priest commanded, and they each brought his men who were to go off duty on the Sabbath, with those who were to come on duty on the Sabbath, and came to Jehoiada the priest.
2 Kings 11:10 And the priest gave to the captains the spears and shields that had been King David's, which were in the house of the LORD.
2 Kings 11:11 And the guards stood, every man with his weapons in his hand, from the south side of the house to the north side of the house, around the altar and the house on behalf of the king.
2 Kings 11:12 Then he brought out the king's son and put “Long live the king!”
2 Kings 11:13 When Athaliah heard the noise of the guard and of the people, she went into the house of the LORD to the people.
2 Kings 11:14 And when she looked, there was the king standing tore her clothes and cried, “Treason! Treason!”
2 Kings 11:15 Then Jehoiada the priest commanded the captains who were set over the army, “Bring her out between the ranks, and put to death with the sword anyone who follows her.” For the priest said, “Let her not be put to death in the house of the LORD.”
2 Kings 11:16 So they laid hands on her; and she went through the horses' entrance to the king's house, and there she was put to death.
2 Kings 11:17 And Jehoiada between the king and the people.
2 Kings 11:18 Then all the people of the land went to his altars and his images they broke in pieces, and they killed Mattan the priest of Baal before the altars. And the priest posted watchmen over the house of the LORD.
2 Kings 11:19 And he took the captains, the gate of the guards to the king's house. And he took his seat on the throne of the kings.
2 Kings 11:20 So all the people of the land rejoiced, and the city was quiet after Athaliah had been put to death with the sword at the king's house.
2 Kings 11:21   was seven years old when he began to reign.
2 Kings 12:1 In the seventh year of Jehu, Jehoash  began to reign, and he reigned forty years in Jerusalem. His mother's name was Zibiah of Beersheba.
2 Kings 12:2 And Jehoash did what was right in the eyes of the LORD all his days, because Jehoiada the priest instructed him.
2 Kings 12:3 Nevertheless, the high places were not taken away; the people continued to sacrifice and make offerings on the high places.
2 Kings 12:4 Jehoash said to the priests, “All the money of the holy things the money that a man's heart prompts him to bring into the house of the LORD,
2 Kings 12:5 let the priests take, each from his donor, and let them repair the house wherever any need of repairs is discovered.”
2 Kings 12:6 But by the twenty-third year of King Jehoash, the priests had made no repairs on the house.
2 Kings 12:7 Therefore King Jehoash summoned Jehoiada the priest and the other priests and said to them, “Why are you not repairing the house? Now therefore take no more money from your donors, but hand it over for the repair of the house.”
2 Kings 12:8 So the priests agreed that they should take no more money from the people, and that they should not repair the house.
2 Kings 12:9 Then Jehoiada the priest took a chest and bored a hole in the lid of it and set it beside the altar on the right side as one entered the house of the LORD. And the priests who guarded the threshold put in it all the money that was brought into the house of the LORD.
2 Kings 12:10 And whenever they saw that there was much money in the chest, the king's secretary and the high priest came up and they bagged and counted the money that was found in the house of the LORD.
2 Kings 12:11 Then they would give the money that was weighed out into the hands of the workmen who had the oversight of the house of the LORD. And they paid it out to the carpenters and the builders who worked on the house of the LORD,
2 Kings 12:12 and to the masons and the stonecutters, as well as to buy timber and quarried stone for making repairs on the house of the LORD, and for any outlay for the repairs of the house.
2 Kings 12:13  basins of silver, snuffers, bowls, trumpets, or any vessels of gold, or of silver, from the money that was brought into the house of the LORD,
2 Kings 12:14 for that was given to the workmen who were repairing the house of the LORD with it.
2 Kings 12:15 And they did not ask for an accounting from the men into whose hand they delivered the money to pay out to the workmen, for they dealt honestly.
2 Kings 12:16 The money from it belonged to the priests.
2 Kings 12:17 At that time to go up against Jerusalem,
2 Kings 12:18 Jehoash king of Judah and his own sacred gifts, and all the gold that was found in the treasuries of the house of the LORD and of the king's house, and sent these to Hazael king of Syria. Then Hazael went away from Jerusalem.
2 Kings 12:19 Now the rest of the acts of Joash and all that he did, are they not written in the Book of the Chronicles of the Kings of Judah?
2 Kings 12:20  Millo, on the way that goes down to Silla.
2 Kings 12:21 It was and Amaziah his son reigned in his place.
2 Kings 13:1 In the twenty-third year of Joash the son of Ahaziah, king of Judah, Jehoahaz the son of Jehu began to reign over Israel in Samaria, and he reigned seventeen years.
2 Kings 13:2 He did what was evil in the sight of the LORD and followed the sins of Jeroboam the son of Nebat, which he made Israel to sin; he did not depart from them.
2 Kings 13:3  Ben-hadad the son of Hazael.
2 Kings 13:4 Then Jehoahaz for he saw the oppression of Israel, how the king of Syria oppressed them.
2 Kings 13:5 (Therefore the LORD gave Israel their homes as formerly.
2 Kings 13:6 Nevertheless, they did not depart from the sins of the house of Jeroboam, the Asherah also remained in Samaria.)
2 Kings 13:7 For there was not left to Jehoahaz an army of more than fifty horsemen and ten chariots and ten thousand footmen, for the king of Syria had destroyed them and made them like the dust at threshing.
2 Kings 13:8 Now the rest of the acts of Jehoahaz and all that he did, and his might, are they not written in the Book of the Chronicles of the Kings of Israel?
2 Kings 13:9 So Jehoahaz slept with his fathers, and they buried him in Samaria, and Joash his son reigned in his place.
2 Kings 13:10 In the thirty-seventh year of Joash king of Judah, Jehoash  the son of Jehoahaz began to reign over Israel in Samaria, and he reigned sixteen years.
2 Kings 13:11 He also did what was evil in the sight of the LORD. He did not depart from all the sins of Jeroboam the son of Nebat, which he made Israel to sin, but he walked in them.
2 Kings 13:12  and the might with which he fought against Amaziah king of Judah, are they not written in the Book of the Chronicles of the Kings of Israel?
2 Kings 13:13 So Joash slept with his fathers, and Jeroboam sat on his throne. And Joash was buried in Samaria with the kings of Israel.
2 Kings 13:14 Now when Elisha had fallen sick with the illness of which he was to die, Joash king of Israel went down to him and wept before him, crying, “My father, my father! The chariots of Israel and its horsemen!”
2 Kings 13:15 And Elisha said to him, “Take a bow and arrows.” So he took a bow and arrows.
2 Kings 13:16 Then he said to the king of Israel, “Draw the bow,” and he drew it. And Elisha laid his hands on the king's hands.
2 Kings 13:17 And he said, “Open the window eastward,” and he opened it. Then Elisha said, “Shoot,” and he shot. And he said, “The LORD's arrow of victory, the arrow of victory over Syria! For you shall fight the Syrians in Aphek until you have made an end of them.”
2 Kings 13:18 And he said, “Take the arrows,” and he took them. And he said to the king of Israel, “Strike the ground with them.” And he struck three times and stopped.
2 Kings 13:19 Then three times.”
2 Kings 13:20 So Elisha died, and they buried him. Now bands of Moabites used to invade the land in the spring of the year.
2 Kings 13:21 And as a man was being buried, behold, a marauding band was seen and the man was thrown into the grave of Elisha, and as soon as the man touched the bones of Elisha, he revived and stood on his feet.
2 Kings 13:22  Now Hazael king of Syria oppressed Israel all the days of Jehoahaz.
2 Kings 13:23  because of his covenant with Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, and would not destroy them, nor has he cast them from his presence until now.
2 Kings 13:24 When Hazael king of Syria died, Ben-hadad his son became king in his place.
2 Kings 13:25 Then Jehoash the son of Jehoahaz took again from Ben-hadad the son of Hazael the cities Three times Joash defeated him and recovered the cities of Israel.
2 Kings 14:1  Amaziah the son of Joash, king of Judah, began to reign.
2 Kings 14:2 He was twenty-five years old when he began to reign, and he reigned twenty-nine years in Jerusalem. His mother's name was Jehoaddin of Jerusalem.
2 Kings 14:3 And he did what was right in the eyes of the LORD, yet not like David his father. He did in all things as Joash his father had done.
2 Kings 14:4  the people still sacrificed and made offerings on the high places.
2 Kings 14:5 And as soon as the royal power was who had struck down the king his father.
2 Kings 14:6 But he did not put to death the children of the murderers, according to what is written in the Book of the Law of Moses, where the LORD commanded, “Fathers shall not be put to death because of their children, nor shall children be put to death because of their fathers. But each one shall die for his own sin.”
2 Kings 14:7  Joktheel, which is its name to this day.
2 Kings 14:8  let us look one another in the face.”
2 Kings 14:9 And Jehoash king of Israel sent word to Amaziah king of Judah, “A thistle on Lebanon sent to a cedar on Lebanon, saying, ‘Give your daughter to my son for a wife,’ and a wild beast of Lebanon passed by and trampled down the thistle.
2 Kings 14:10 You have indeed and your heart has lifted you up. Be content with your glory, and stay at home, for why should you provoke trouble so that you fall, you and Judah with you?”
2 Kings 14:11 But Amaziah would not listen. So Jehoash king of Israel went up, and he and Amaziah king of Judah Beth-shemesh, which belongs to Judah.
2 Kings 14:12 And Judah was defeated by Israel, and every man fled to his home.
2 Kings 14:13 And Jehoash king of Israel captured Amaziah king of Judah, the son of Jehoash, son of Ahaziah, at Beth-shemesh, and came to Jerusalem and broke down the wall of Jerusalem for four hundred cubits, the Corner Gate.
2 Kings 14:14 And he seized all the gold and silver, and all the vessels that were found in the house of the LORD and in the treasuries of the king's house, also hostages, and he returned to Samaria.
2 Kings 14:15  Now the rest of the acts of Jehoash that he did, and his might, and how he fought with Amaziah king of Judah, are they not written in the Book of the Chronicles of the Kings of Israel?
2 Kings 14:16 And Jehoash slept with his fathers and was buried in Samaria with the kings of Israel, and Jeroboam his son reigned in his place.
2 Kings 14:17  Amaziah the son of Joash, king of Judah, lived fifteen years after the death of Jehoash son of Jehoahaz, king of Israel.
2 Kings 14:18 Now the rest of the deeds of Amaziah, are they not written in the Book of the Chronicles of the Kings of Judah?
2 Kings 14:19 And they made a conspiracy against him in Jerusalem, and he fled to Lachish. But they sent after him to Lachish and put him to death there.
2 Kings 14:20 And they brought him on horses; and he was buried in Jerusalem with his fathers in the city of David.
2 Kings 14:21 And all the people of Judah took Azariah, who was sixteen years old, and made him king instead of his father Amaziah.
2 Kings 14:22 He built Elath and restored it to Judah, after the king slept with his fathers.
2 Kings 14:23 In the fifteenth year of Amaziah the son of Joash, king of Judah, Jeroboam the son of Joash, king of Israel, began to reign in Samaria, and he reigned forty-one years.
2 Kings 14:24 And he did what was evil in the sight of the LORD. He did not depart from all the sins of Jeroboam the son of Nebat, which he made Israel to sin.
2 Kings 14:25  Gath-hepher.
2 Kings 14:26 For the LORD for there was none left, bond or free, and there was none to help Israel.
2 Kings 14:27  But the LORD had not said that he would blot out the name of Israel from under heaven, so he saved them by the hand of Jeroboam the son of Joash.
2 Kings 14:28 Now the rest of the acts of Jeroboam and all that he did, and his might, how he fought, and how he restored Hamath to Judah in Israel, are they not written in the Book of the Chronicles of the Kings of Israel?
2 Kings 14:29 And Jeroboam slept with his fathers, the kings of Israel, and Zechariah his son reigned in his place.
2 Kings 15:1  Azariah the son of Amaziah, king of Judah, began to reign.
2 Kings 15:2 He was sixteen years old when he began to reign, and he reigned fifty-two years in Jerusalem. His mother's name was Jecoliah of Jerusalem.
2 Kings 15:3 And he did what was right in the eyes of the LORD, according to all that his father Amaziah had done.
2 Kings 15:4  Nevertheless, the high places were not taken away. The people still sacrificed and made offerings on the high places.
2 Kings 15:5   And Jotham the king's son was over the household, governing the people of the land.
2 Kings 15:6 Now the rest of the acts of Azariah, and all that he did, are they not written in the Book of the Chronicles of the Kings of Judah?
2 Kings 15:7 And Azariah slept with his fathers, and they buried him with his fathers in the city of David, and Jotham his son reigned in his place.
2 Kings 15:8 In the thirty-eighth year of Azariah king of Judah, Zechariah the son of Jeroboam reigned over Israel in Samaria six months.
2 Kings 15:9 And he did what was evil in the sight of the LORD, as his fathers had done. He did not depart from the sins of Jeroboam the son of Nebat, which he made Israel to sin.
2 Kings 15:10 Shallum the son of Jabesh conspired against him and struck him down at Ibleam and put him to death and reigned in his place.
2 Kings 15:11 Now the rest of the deeds of Zechariah, behold, they are written in the Book of the Chronicles of the Kings of Israel.
2 Kings 15:12 (This was the promise of the LORD that he gave to Jehu, “Your sons shall sit on the throne of Israel to the fourth generation.” And so it came to pass.)
2 Kings 15:13 Shallum the son of Jabesh began to reign in the thirty-ninth year of Samaria.
2 Kings 15:14 Then Menahem the son of Gadi came up from Tirzah and came to Samaria, and he struck down Shallum the son of Jabesh in Samaria and put him to death and reigned in his place.
2 Kings 15:15 Now the rest of the deeds of Shallum, and the conspiracy that he made, behold, they are written in the Book of the Chronicles of the Kings of Israel.
2 Kings 15:16 At that time Menahem sacked Tiphsah and all who were in it and its territory from Tirzah on, because they did not open it to him. Therefore he sacked it, and he ripped open all the women in it who were pregnant.
2 Kings 15:17 In the thirty-ninth year of Azariah king of Judah, Menahem the son of Gadi began to reign over Israel, and he reigned ten years in Samaria.
2 Kings 15:18 And he did what was evil in the sight of the LORD. He did not depart all his days from all the sins of Jeroboam the son of Nebat, which he made Israel to sin.
2 Kings 15:19  to confirm his hold on the royal power.
2 Kings 15:20 Menahem exacted the money from Israel, that is, from all the wealthy men, fifty shekels  of silver from every man, to give to the king of Assyria. So the king of Assyria turned back and did not stay there in the land.
2 Kings 15:21 Now the rest of the deeds of Menahem and all that he did, are they not written in the Book of the Chronicles of the Kings of Israel?
2 Kings 15:22 And Menahem slept with his fathers, and Pekahiah his son reigned in his place.
2 Kings 15:23 In the fiftieth year of Azariah king of Judah, Pekahiah the son of Menahem began to reign over Israel in Samaria, and he reigned two years.
2 Kings 15:24 And he did what was evil in the sight of the LORD. He did not turn away from the sins of Jeroboam the son of Nebat, which he made Israel to sin.
2 Kings 15:25 And Pekah the son of Remaliah, his captain, conspired against him with fifty men of the people of Gilead, and struck him down in Samaria, in the citadel of the king's house with Argob and Arieh; he put him to death and reigned in his place.
2 Kings 15:26 Now the rest of the deeds of Pekahiah and all that he did, behold, they are written in the Book of the Chronicles of the Kings of Israel.
2 Kings 15:27 In the fifty-second year of Azariah king of Judah, Pekah the son of Remaliah began to reign over Israel in Samaria, and he reigned twenty years.
2 Kings 15:28 And he did what was evil in the sight of the LORD. He did not depart from the sins of Jeroboam the son of Nebat, which he made Israel to sin.
2 Kings 15:29 In the days of Pekah king of Israel, Galilee, all the land of Naphtali, and he carried the people captive to Assyria.
2 Kings 15:30 Then Hoshea the son of Elah made a conspiracy against Pekah the son of Remaliah and struck him down and put him to death and reigned in his place, in the twentieth year of Jotham the son of Uzziah.
2 Kings 15:31 Now the rest of the acts of Pekah and all that he did, behold, they are written in the Book of the Chronicles of the Kings of Israel.
2 Kings 15:32 In the second year of Pekah the son of Remaliah, king of Israel, Jotham the son of Uzziah, king of Judah, began to reign.
2 Kings 15:33 He was twenty-five years old when he began to reign, and he reigned sixteen years in Jerusalem. His mother's name was Jerusha the daughter of Zadok.
2 Kings 15:34 And he did what was right in the eyes of the LORD, according to all that his father Uzziah had done.
2 Kings 15:35  the upper gate of the house of the LORD.
2 Kings 15:36 Now the rest of the acts of Jotham and all that he did, are they not written in the Book of the Chronicles of the Kings of Judah?
2 Kings 15:37 In those days the LORD began to send Pekah the son of Remaliah against Judah.
2 Kings 15:38 Jotham slept with his fathers and was buried with his fathers in the city of David his father, and Ahaz his son reigned in his place.
2 Kings 16:1 In the seventeenth year of Pekah the son of Remaliah, Ahaz the son of Jotham, king of Judah, began to reign.
2 Kings 16:2 Ahaz was twenty years old when he began to reign, and he reigned sixteen years in Jerusalem. And he did not do what was right in the eyes of the LORD his God, as his father David had done,
2 Kings 16:3 but he walked in the way of the kings of Israel. according to the despicable practices of the nations whom the LORD drove out before the people of Israel.
2 Kings 16:4  on the high places and on the hills and under every green tree.
2 Kings 16:5  but could not conquer him.
2 Kings 16:6 At that time Rezin the king of Syria recovered Elath, and the Edomites came to Elath, where they dwell to this day.
2 Kings 16:7  Tiglath-pileser king of Assyria, saying, “I am your servant and your son. Come up and rescue me from the hand of the king of Syria and from the hand of the king of Israel, who are attacking me.”
2 Kings 16:8 Ahaz also took the silver and gold that was found in the house of the LORD and in the treasures of the king's house and sent a present to the king of Assyria.
2 Kings 16:9  Kir, and he killed Rezin.
2 Kings 16:10 When King Ahaz went to Damascus to meet Uriah the priest a model of the altar, and its pattern, exact in all its details.
2 Kings 16:11 And Uriah the priest built the altar; in accordance with all that King Ahaz had sent from Damascus, so Uriah the priest made it, before King Ahaz arrived from Damascus.
2 Kings 16:12 And when the king came from Damascus, the king viewed the altar. Then the king drew near to the altar and went up on it
2 Kings 16:13 and burned his burnt offering and his grain offering and poured his drink offering and threw the blood of his peace offerings on the altar.
2 Kings 16:14 And his altar.
2 Kings 16:15 And King Ahaz commanded Uriah the priest, saying, “On the great altar burn the bronze altar shall be for me to inquire by.”
2 Kings 16:16 Uriah the priest did all this, as King Ahaz commanded.
2 Kings 16:17 And King Ahaz cut off the frames of the stands and removed the basin from them, and he took down  from off the bronze oxen that were under it and put it on a stone pedestal.
2 Kings 16:18 And the covered way for the Sabbath that had been built inside the house and the outer entrance for the king he caused to go around the house of the LORD, because of the king of Assyria.
2 Kings 16:19 Now the rest of the acts of Ahaz that he did, are they not written in the Book of the Chronicles of the Kings of Judah?
2 Kings 16:20 And Ahaz slept with his fathers and was buried with his fathers in the city of David, and Hezekiah his son reigned in his place.
2 Kings 17:1 In the twelfth year of Ahaz king of Judah, Hoshea the son of Elah began to reign in Samaria over Israel, and he reigned nine years.
2 Kings 17:2 And he did what was evil in the sight of the LORD, yet not as the kings of Israel who were before him.
2 Kings 17:3  Shalmaneser king of Assyria. And Hoshea became his vassal and paid him tribute.
2 Kings 17:4 But the king of Assyria found treachery in Hoshea, for he had sent messengers to So, king of Egypt, and offered no tribute to the king of Assyria, as he had done year by year. Therefore the king of Assyria shut him up and bound him in prison.
2 Kings 17:5 Then the king of Assyria invaded all the land and came to Samaria, and for three years he besieged it.
2 Kings 17:6 In the ninth year of Hoshea, the king of Assyria the Medes.
2 Kings 17:7 And this occurred because the people of Israel had sinned against the LORD their God, who had brought them up out of the land of Egypt from under the hand of Pharaoh king of Egypt, and had feared other gods
2 Kings 17:8  and in the customs that the kings of Israel had practiced.
2 Kings 17:9 And the people of Israel did secretly against the LORD their God things that were not right. They built for themselves high places in all their towns, from watchtower to fortified city.
2 Kings 17:10 They set up for themselves pillars and Asherim on every high hill and under every green tree,
2 Kings 17:11 and there they made offerings on all the high places, as the nations did whom the LORD carried away before them. And they did wicked things, provoking the LORD to anger,
2 Kings 17:12 and they served idols, of which the LORD had said to them, “You shall not do this.”
2 Kings 17:13 Yet the LORD “Turn from your evil ways and keep my commandments and my statutes, in accordance with all the Law that I commanded your fathers, and that I sent to you by my servants the prophets.”
2 Kings 17:14 But they would not listen, but were stubborn, as their fathers had been, who did not believe in the LORD their God.
2 Kings 17:15 They despised his statutes LORD had commanded them that they should not do like them.
2 Kings 17:16 And they abandoned all the commandments of the LORD their God, and made for themselves metal images of Baal.
2 Kings 17:17  sold themselves to do evil in the sight of the LORD, provoking him to anger.
2 Kings 17:18 Therefore the LORD was very angry with Israel and removed them out of his sight. None was left but the tribe of Judah only.
2 Kings 17:19  Judah also did not keep the commandments of the LORD their God, but walked in the customs that Israel had introduced.
2 Kings 17:20 And the LORD rejected all the descendants of Israel and afflicted them and gave them into the hand of plunderers, until he had cast them out of his sight.
2 Kings 17:21  and made them commit great sin.
2 Kings 17:22 The people of Israel walked in all the sins that Jeroboam did. They did not depart from them,
2 Kings 17:23 until the LORD removed Israel out of his sight, So Israel was exiled from their own land to Assyria until this day.
2 Kings 17:24  Sepharvaim, and placed them in the cities of Samaria instead of the people of Israel. And they took possession of Samaria and lived in its cities.
2 Kings 17:25 And at the beginning of their dwelling there, they did not fear the LORD. Therefore the LORD sent lions among them, which killed some of them.
2 Kings 17:26 So the king of Assyria was told, “The nations that you have carried away and placed in the cities of Samaria do not know the law of the god of the land. Therefore he has sent lions among them, and behold, they are killing them, because they do not know the law of the god of the land.”
2 Kings 17:27 Then the king of Assyria commanded, “Send there one of the priests whom you carried away from there, and let him  go and dwell there and teach them the law of the god of the land.”
2 Kings 17:28 So one of the priests whom they had carried away from Samaria came and lived in Bethel and taught them how they should fear the LORD.
2 Kings 17:29 But every nation still made gods of its own and put them in the shrines of the high places that the Samaritans had made, every nation in the cities in which they lived.
2 Kings 17:30 The men of Babylon made Succoth-benoth, the men of Cuth made Nergal, the men of Hamath made Ashima,
2 Kings 17:31 and the Avvites made Nibhaz and Tartak; and the Sepharvites Sepharvaim.
2 Kings 17:32  the high places.
2 Kings 17:33 So they feared the LORD but also served their own gods, after the manner of the nations from among whom they had been carried away.
2 Kings 17:34 To this day they do according to the former manner. They do not fear the LORD, and they do not follow the statutes or the rules or the law or the commandment that the LORD commanded the children of Jacob, whom he named Israel.
2 Kings 17:35 The LORD made a covenant with them and commanded them, or bow yourselves to them or serve them or sacrifice to them,
2 Kings 17:36 but with an outstretched arm. You shall bow yourselves to him, and to him you shall sacrifice.
2 Kings 17:37 And the statutes and the rules and the law and the commandment that he wrote for you, You shall not fear other gods,
2 Kings 17:38 and You shall not fear other gods,
2 Kings 17:39 but you shall fear the LORD your God, and he will deliver you out of the hand of all your enemies.”
2 Kings 17:40 However, they would not listen, but they did according to their former manner.
2 Kings 17:41  So these nations feared the LORD and also served their carved images. Their children did likewise, and their children's children — as their fathers did, so they do to this day.
2 Kings 18:1  Hezekiah the son of Ahaz, king of Judah, began to reign.
2 Kings 18:2 He was Abi the daughter of Zechariah.
2 Kings 18:3  And he did what was right in the eyes of the LORD, according to all that David his father had done.
2 Kings 18:4
2 Kings 18:5  so that there was none like him among all the kings of Judah after him, nor among those who were before him.
2 Kings 18:6  For he held fast to the LORD. He did not depart from following him, but kept the commandments that the LORD commanded Moses.
2 Kings 18:7  he prospered. He rebelled against the king of Assyria and would not serve him.
2 Kings 18:8  from watchtower to fortified city.
2 Kings 18:9 In the fourth year of King Hezekiah, which was the seventh year of Hoshea son of Elah, king of Israel, Shalmaneser king of Assyria came up against Samaria and besieged it,
2 Kings 18:10 and at the end of three years he took it. In the sixth year of Hezekiah, which was the ninth year of Hoshea king of Israel, Samaria was taken.
2 Kings 18:11 The king of Assyria carried the Israelites away to Assyria and put them in the river of Gozan, and in the cities of the Medes,
2 Kings 18:12 because they did not obey the voice of the LORD their God but transgressed his covenant, even all that Moses the servant of the LORD commanded. They neither listened nor obeyed.
2 Kings 18:13  In the fourteenth year of King Hezekiah, Sennacherib king of Assyria came up against all the fortified cities of Judah and took them.
2 Kings 18:14 And Hezekiah king of Judah sent to the king of Assyria at Lachish, saying, “I have done wrong; withdraw from me. Whatever you impose on me I will bear.”  of silver and thirty talents of gold.
2 Kings 18:15 And Hezekiah gave him all the silver that was found in the house of the LORD and in the treasuries of the king's house.
2 Kings 18:16 At that time Hezekiah stripped the gold from the doors of the temple of the LORD and from the doorposts that Hezekiah king of Judah had overlaid and gave it to the king of Assyria.
2 Kings 18:17 And the king of Assyria sent the the conduit of the upper pool, which is on the highway to the Washer's Field.
2 Kings 18:18 And when they called for the king, there came out to them Shebnah the secretary, and Joah the son of Asaph, the recorder.
2 Kings 18:19 And the Rabshakeh said to them, “Say to Hezekiah, ‘Thus says the great king, the king of Assyria: On what do you rest this trust of yours?
2 Kings 18:20 Do you think that mere words are strategy and power for war? In whom do you now trust, that you have rebelled against me?
2 Kings 18:21 Behold, you are trusting now in Egypt, that broken reed of a staff, which will pierce the hand of any man who leans on it. Such is Pharaoh king of Egypt to all who trust in him.
2 Kings 18:22 But if you say to me, “We trust in the LORD our God,” is it not he whose high places and altars Hezekiah has removed, saying to Judah and to Jerusalem, “You shall worship before this altar in Jerusalem”?
2 Kings 18:23 Come now, make a wager with my master the king of Assyria: I will give you two thousand horses, if you are able on your part to set riders on them.
2 Kings 18:24 How then can you repulse a single captain among the least of my master's servants, when you trust in Egypt for chariots and for horsemen?
2 Kings 18:25 Moreover, is it without the LORD that I have come up against this place to destroy it? The LORD said to me, “Go up against this land and destroy it.”’”
2 Kings 18:26 Then Aramaic, for we understand it. Do not speak to us in the language of Judah within the hearing of the people who are on the wall.”
2 Kings 18:27 But the Rabshakeh said to them, “Has my master sent me to speak these words to your master and to you, and not to the men sitting on the wall, who are doomed with you to eat their own dung and to drink their own urine?”
2 Kings 18:28 Then the Rabshakeh stood and called out in a loud voice in the language of Judah: “Hear the word of the great king, the king of Assyria!
2 Kings 18:29 Thus says the king: ‘Do not let Hezekiah deceive you, for he will not be able to deliver you out of my  hand.
2 Kings 18:30 Do not let Hezekiah make you trust in the LORD by saying, The LORD will surely deliver us, and this city will not be given into the hand of the king of Assyria.’
2 Kings 18:31 Do not listen to Hezekiah, for thus says the king of Assyria: ‘Make your peace with me each one of you will eat of his own vine, and each one of his own fig tree, and each one of you will drink the water of his own cistern,
2 Kings 18:32 until I come and take you away to a land like your own land, honey, that you may live, and not die. And do not listen to Hezekiah when he misleads you by saying, “The LORD will deliver us.”
2 Kings 18:33  Has any of the gods of the nations ever delivered his land out of the hand of the king of Assyria?
2 Kings 18:34  Ivvah? Have they delivered Samaria out of my hand?
2 Kings 18:35 Who among all the gods of the lands have delivered their lands out of my hand, that the LORD should deliver Jerusalem out of my hand?’”
2 Kings 18:36 But the people were silent and answered him not a word, for the king's command was, “Do not answer him.”
2 Kings 18:37 Then with their clothes torn and told him the words of the Rabshakeh.
2 Kings 19:1  covered himself with sackcloth and went into the house of the LORD.
2 Kings 19:2 And he sent Eliakim, who was over the household, and Shebna the secretary, and the senior priests, covered with sackcloth, to the prophet Isaiah the son of Amoz.
2 Kings 19:3 They said to him, “Thus says Hezekiah, This day is a day of distress, of rebuke, and of disgrace; children have come to the point of birth, and there is no strength to bring them forth.
2 Kings 19:4  the remnant that is left.”
2 Kings 19:5 When the servants of King Hezekiah came to Isaiah,
2 Kings 19:6 Isaiah said to them, “Say to your master, ‘Thus says the LORD: Do not be afraid because of the words that you have heard, with which reviled me.
2 Kings 19:7 Behold, I will put a spirit in him, so that fall by the sword in his own land.’”
2 Kings 19:8 The Rabshakeh returned, and found the king of Assyria fighting against Lachish.
2 Kings 19:9  Now the king heard concerning Tirhakah king of Cush, “Behold, he has set out to fight against you.” So he sent messengers again to Hezekiah, saying,
2 Kings 19:10 “Thus shall you speak to Hezekiah king of Judah: ‘Do not let your God Jerusalem will not be given into the hand of the king of Assyria.
2 Kings 19:11 Behold, you have heard what the kings of Assyria have done to all lands, devoting them to destruction. And shall you be delivered?
2 Kings 19:12  Eden who were in Telassar?
2 Kings 19:13  Where is the king of Hamath, the king of Arpad, the king of the city of Sepharvaim, the king of Hena, or the king of Ivvah?’”
2 Kings 19:14 Hezekiah received the letter from the hand of the messengers and read it; and Hezekiah went up to the house of the LORD and spread it before the LORD.
2 Kings 19:15 And Hezekiah prayed before the LORD and said: “O LORD, the God of Israel, you are the God, you alone, of all the kingdoms of the earth; you have made heaven and earth.
2 Kings 19:16  to mock the living God.
2 Kings 19:17 Truly, O LORD, the kings of Assyria have laid waste the nations and their lands
2 Kings 19:18 and have cast their gods into the fire, for they were not gods, but the work of men's hands, wood and stone. Therefore they were destroyed.
2 Kings 19:19 So now, O LORD our God, save us, please, from his hand, you, O LORD, are God alone.”
2 Kings 19:20 Then Isaiah the son of Amoz sent to Hezekiah, saying, “Thus says the LORD, the God of Israel: Your prayer to me about Sennacherib king of Assyria I have heard.
2 Kings 19:21 This is the word that the LORD has spoken concerning him: “She despises you, she scorns you —  wags her head behind you — the daughter of Jerusalem.
2 Kings 19:22 “Whom have you the Holy One of Israel!
2 Kings 19:23  fruitful forest.
2 Kings 19:24 I dug wells and drank foreign waters, and I dried up with the sole of my foot all the streams of Egypt.’
2 Kings 19:25 “Have you not heard that now I bring to pass, that you should turn fortified cities into heaps of ruins,
2 Kings 19:26 while their inhabitants, shorn of strength, are dismayed and confounded, and have become like plants of the field and like tender grass, like grass on the housetops, blighted before it is grown.
2 Kings 19:27 “But I know your sitting down and your going out and coming in, and your raging against me.
2 Kings 19:28 Because you have raged against me and your complacency has come into my ears, I will I will turn you back on the way by which you came.
2 Kings 19:29 “And this shall be the sign for you: this year eat what grows of itself, and in the second year what springs of the same. Then in the third year sow and reap and plant vineyards, and eat their fruit.
2 Kings 19:30  And the surviving remnant of the house of Judah shall again take root downward and bear fruit upward.
2 Kings 19:31 For out of Jerusalem shall go a remnant, and out of Mount Zion The zeal of the LORD will do this.
2 Kings 19:32 “Therefore thus says the LORD concerning the king of Assyria: He shall not come into this city or shoot an arrow there, or come before it with a shield or cast up a siege mound against it.
2 Kings 19:33  By the way that he came, by the same he shall return, and he shall not come into this city, declares the LORD.
2 Kings 19:34  and for the sake of my servant David.”
2 Kings 19:35 And that night the angel of the LORD went out and struck down 185,000 in the camp of the Assyrians. And when people arose early in the morning, behold, these were all dead bodies.
2 Kings 19:36 Then Sennacherib king of Assyria departed and went home and lived at Nineveh.
2 Kings 19:37 And as he was worshiping in the house of Nisroch his god, Adrammelech and Sharezer, his sons, struck him down with the sword and escaped into the land of Ararat. And Esarhaddon his son reigned in his place.
2 Kings 20:1  ‘Set your house in order, for you shall die; you shall not recover.’”
2 Kings 20:2 Then Hezekiah turned his face to the wall and prayed to the LORD, saying,
2 Kings 20:3 “Now, O LORD, And Hezekiah wept bitterly.
2 Kings 20:4 And before Isaiah had gone out of the middle court, the word of the LORD came to him:
2 Kings 20:5 “Turn back, and say to Hezekiah I have seen your tears. Behold, I will heal you. On the third day you shall go up to the house of the LORD,
2 Kings 20:6 and I will add fifteen years to your life. I will deliver you and this city out of the hand of the king of Assyria, and I will defend this city for my own sake and for my servant David's sake.”
2 Kings 20:7 And Isaiah said, “Bring a cake of figs. And let them take and lay it on the boil, that he may recover.”
2 Kings 20:8 And Hezekiah said to Isaiah, “What shall be the sign that the LORD will heal me, and that I shall go up to the house of the LORD on the third day?”
2 Kings 20:9 And Isaiah said, “This shall be the sign to you from the LORD, that the LORD will do the thing that he has promised: shall the shadow go forward ten steps, or go back ten steps?”
2 Kings 20:10 And Hezekiah answered, “It is an easy thing for the shadow to lengthen ten steps. Rather let the shadow go back ten steps.”
2 Kings 20:11 And Isaiah the prophet called to the LORD, and he brought the shadow back ten steps, by which it had gone down on the steps of Ahaz.
2 Kings 20:12  sent envoys with letters and a present to Hezekiah, for he heard that Hezekiah had been sick.
2 Kings 20:13 And Hezekiah welcomed them, and he showed them all his treasure house, the silver, the gold, the spices, the precious oil, his armory, all that was found in his storehouses. There was nothing in his house or in all his realm that Hezekiah did not show them.
2 Kings 20:14 Then Isaiah the prophet came to King Hezekiah, and said to him, “What did these men say? And from where did they come to you?” And Hezekiah said, “They have come from a far country, from Babylon.”
2 Kings 20:15 He said, “What have they seen in your house?” And Hezekiah answered, “They have seen all that is in my house; there is nothing in my storehouses that I did not show them.”
2 Kings 20:16 Then Isaiah said to Hezekiah, “Hear the word of the LORD:
2 Kings 20:17 Behold, the days are coming, when all that is in your house, and that which your fathers have stored up till this day, shall be carried to Babylon. Nothing shall be left, says the LORD.
2 Kings 20:18  and they shall be eunuchs in the palace of the king of Babylon.”
2 Kings 20:19 Then Hezekiah said to Isaiah, “The word of the LORD that you have spoken is good.” For he thought, “Why not, if there will be peace and security in my days?”
2 Kings 20:20  and brought water into the city, are they not written in the Book of the Chronicles of the Kings of Judah?
2 Kings 20:21  And Hezekiah slept with his fathers, and Manasseh his son reigned in his place.
2 Kings 21:1  Manasseh was twelve years old when he began to reign, and he reigned fifty-five years in Jerusalem. His mother's name was Hephzibah.
2 Kings 21:2 And he did what was evil in the sight of the LORD, according to the despicable practices of the nations whom the LORD drove out before the people of Israel.
2 Kings 21:3 For he rebuilt the high places and worshiped all the host of heaven and served them.
2 Kings 21:4  “In Jerusalem will I put my name.”
2 Kings 21:5 And he built altars the two courts of the house of the LORD.
2 Kings 21:6  with mediums and with necromancers. He did much evil in the sight of the LORD, provoking him to anger.
2 Kings 21:7 And the carved image of and in Jerusalem, which I have chosen out of all the tribes of Israel, I will put my name forever.
2 Kings 21:8  And I will not cause the feet of Israel to wander anymore out of the land that I gave to their fathers, if only they will be careful to do according to all that I have commanded them, and according to all the Law that my servant Moses commanded them.”
2 Kings 21:9 But they did not listen, and Manasseh led them astray to do more evil than the nations had done whom the LORD destroyed before the people of Israel.
2 Kings 21:10 And the LORD said by his servants the prophets,
2 Kings 21:11  with his idols,
2 Kings 21:12 therefore thus says the LORD, the God of Israel: Behold, I am bringing upon Jerusalem and Judah such disaster will tingle.
2 Kings 21:13  And I will stretch over Jerusalem the measuring line of Samaria, and the plumb line of the house of Ahab, and I will wipe Jerusalem as one wipes a dish, wiping it and turning it upside down.
2 Kings 21:14 And I will forsake the remnant of my heritage and give them into the hand of their enemies, and they shall become a prey and a spoil to all their enemies,
2 Kings 21:15 because they have done what is evil in my sight and have provoked me to anger, since the day their fathers came out of Egypt, even to this day.”
2 Kings 21:16  that he made Judah to sin so that they did what was evil in the sight of the LORD.
2 Kings 21:17  Now the rest of the acts of Manasseh and all that he did, and the sin that he committed, are they not written in the Book of the Chronicles of the Kings of Judah?
2 Kings 21:18  in the garden of Uzza, and Amon his son reigned in his place.
2 Kings 21:19 Amon was twenty-two years old when he began to reign, and he reigned two years in Jerusalem. His mother's name was Meshullemeth the daughter of Haruz of Jotbah.
2 Kings 21:20 And he did what was evil in the sight of the LORD, as Manasseh his father had done.
2 Kings 21:21 He walked in all the way in which his father walked and served the idols that his father served and worshiped them.
2 Kings 21:22  He abandoned the LORD, the God of his fathers, and did not walk in the way of the LORD.
2 Kings 21:23 And the servants of Amon conspired against him and put the king to death in his house.
2 Kings 21:24 But the people of the land struck down all those who had conspired against King Amon, and the people of the land made Josiah his son king in his place.
2 Kings 21:25 Now the rest of the acts of Amon that he did, are they not written in the Book of the Chronicles of the Kings of Judah?
2 Kings 21:26 And he was buried in his tomb in the garden of Uzza, and Josiah his son reigned in his place.
2 Kings 22:1  Bozkath.
2 Kings 22:2 And he did what was right in the eyes of the LORD and walked in all the way of David his father, and he did not turn aside to the right or to the left.
2 Kings 22:3 In the eighteenth year of King Josiah, the king sent Shaphan the son of Azaliah, son of Meshullam, the secretary, to the house of the LORD, saying,
2 Kings 22:4 “Go up to the keepers of the threshold have collected from the people.
2 Kings 22:5  And let it be given into the hand of the workmen who have the oversight of the house of the LORD, and let them give it to the workmen who are at the house of the LORD, repairing the house
2 Kings 22:6 (that is, to the carpenters, and to the builders, and to the masons), and let them use it for buying timber and quarried stone to repair the house.
2 Kings 22:7 But no accounting shall be asked from them for the money that is delivered into their hand, for they deal honestly.”
2 Kings 22:8 And Hilkiah the high priest said to Shaphan the secretary, “I have found the Book of the Law in the house of the LORD.” And Hilkiah gave the book to Shaphan, and he read it.
2 Kings 22:9 And Shaphan the secretary came to the king, and reported to the king, “Your servants have emptied out the money that was found in the house and have delivered it into the hand of the workmen who have the oversight of the house of the LORD.”
2 Kings 22:10 Then Shaphan the secretary told the king, “Hilkiah the priest has given me a book.” And Shaphan read it before the king.
2 Kings 22:11 When the king heard the words of the Book of the Law, he tore his clothes.
2 Kings 22:12 And the king commanded Hilkiah the priest, and Micaiah, and Shaphan the secretary, and Asaiah the king's servant, saying,
2 Kings 22:13 “Go, inquire of the LORD for me, and for the people, and for all Judah, concerning the words of this book that has been found. For great is the wrath of the LORD that is kindled against us, because our fathers have not obeyed the words of this book, to do according to all that is written concerning us.”
2 Kings 22:14 So Hilkiah the priest, and Ahikam, and Achbor, and Shaphan, and Asaiah went to Huldah the prophetess, the wife of Shallum the son of the Second Quarter), and they talked with her.
2 Kings 22:15 And she said to them, “Thus says the LORD, the God of Israel: ‘Tell the man who sent you to me,
2 Kings 22:16 Thus says the LORD, Behold, I will bring disaster upon this place and upon its inhabitants, all the words of the book that the king of Judah has read.
2 Kings 22:17  my wrath will be kindled against this place, and it will not be quenched.
2 Kings 22:18 But to the king of Judah, who sent you to inquire of the LORD, thus shall you say to him, Thus says the LORD, the God of Israel: Regarding the words that you have heard,
2 Kings 22:19  have torn your clothes and wept before me, I also have heard you, declares the LORD.
2 Kings 22:20 Therefore, behold, I will gather you to your fathers, and you shall be gathered to your grave in peace, and your eyes shall not see all the disaster that I will bring upon this place.’” And they brought back word to the king.
2 Kings 23:1  Then the king sent, and all the elders of Judah and Jerusalem were gathered to him.
2 Kings 23:2 And the king went up to the house of the LORD, and with him all the men of Judah and all the inhabitants of Jerusalem and the priests and the prophets, all the people, both small and great. And that had been found in the house of the LORD.
2 Kings 23:3 And the king stood to walk after the LORD and to keep his commandments and his testimonies and his statutes with all his heart and all his soul, to perform the words of this covenant that were written in this book. And all the people joined in the covenant.
2 Kings 23:4 And the king commanded Hilkiah the high priest and the priests He burned them outside Jerusalem in the fields of the Kidron and carried their ashes to Bethel.
2 Kings 23:5 And he deposed the priests whom the kings of Judah had ordained to make offerings in the high places at the cities of Judah and around Jerusalem; those also who burned incense to Baal, to the sun and the moon and the constellations and all the host of the heavens.
2 Kings 23:6 And he brought out of the common people.
2 Kings 23:7 And he broke down the houses of the Asherah.
2 Kings 23:8 And he brought all the priests out of the cities of Judah, and defiled the high places where the priests had made offerings, from Geba to Beersheba. And he broke down the high places of the gates that were at the entrance of the gate of Joshua the governor of the city, which were on one's left at the gate of the city.
2 Kings 23:9  However, the priests of the high places did not come up to the altar of the LORD in Jerusalem, but they ate unleavened bread among their brothers.
2 Kings 23:10 And he defiled
2 Kings 23:11 And he removed the horses that the kings of Judah had dedicated to the sun, at the entrance to the house of the LORD, by the chamber of Nathan-melech the chamberlain, which was in the precincts.  And he burned the chariots of the sun with fire.
2 Kings 23:12 And the altars into the brook Kidron.
2 Kings 23:13 And the king defiled the high places that were east of Jerusalem, to the south of Milcom the abomination of the Ammonites.
2 Kings 23:14 And he broke in pieces the pillars and cut down the Asherim and filled their places with the bones of men.
2 Kings 23:15 Moreover, the altar at Bethel, the high place erected  reducing it to dust. He also burned the Asherah.
2 Kings 23:16 And as Josiah turned, he saw the tombs there on the mount. And he sent and took the bones out of the tombs and burned them on the altar and defiled it, according to the word of the LORD that the man of God proclaimed, who had predicted these things.
2 Kings 23:17 Then he said, “What is that monument that I see?” And the men of the city told him,  these things that you have done against the altar at Bethel.”
2 Kings 23:18 And he said, “Let him be; let no man move his bones.” So they let his bones alone, with the bones of the prophet who came out of Samaria.
2 Kings 23:19 And Josiah removed all the shrines also of the high places that were in the cities of Samaria, which kings of Israel had made, provoking the LORD to anger. He did to them according to all that he had done at Bethel.
2 Kings 23:20 And and burned human bones on them. Then he returned to Jerusalem.
2 Kings 23:21 And the king commanded all the people, as it is written in this Book of the Covenant.”
2 Kings 23:22  For no such Passover had been kept since the days of the judges who judged Israel, or during all the days of the kings of Israel or of the kings of Judah.
2 Kings 23:23 But in the eighteenth year of King Josiah this Passover was kept to the LORD in Jerusalem.
2 Kings 23:24 Moreover, Josiah put away that Hilkiah the priest found in the house of the LORD.
2 Kings 23:25  Before him there was no king like him, who turned to the LORD with all his heart and with all his soul and with all his might, according to all the Law of Moses, nor did any like him arise after him.
2 Kings 23:26 Still the LORD did not turn from the burning of his great wrath, by which his anger was kindled against Judah, because of all the provocations with which Manasseh had provoked him.
2 Kings 23:27 And the LORD said, “I will remove Judah also out of my sight, and the house of which I said, My name shall be there.”
2 Kings 23:28 Now the rest of the acts of Josiah and all that he did, are they not written in the Book of the Chronicles of the Kings of Judah?
2 Kings 23:29  Megiddo, as soon as he saw him.
2 Kings 23:30  And the people of the land took Jehoahaz the son of Josiah, and anointed him, and made him king in his father's place.
2 Kings 23:31  Hamutal the daughter of Jeremiah of Libnah.
2 Kings 23:32 And he did what was evil in the sight of the LORD, according to all that his fathers had done.
2 Kings 23:33 And  of silver and a talent of gold.
2 Kings 23:34 And and he came to Egypt and died there.
2 Kings 23:35 And Jehoiakim gave the silver and the gold to Pharaoh, but he taxed the land to give the money according to the command of Pharaoh. He exacted the silver and the gold of the people of the land, from everyone according to his assessment, to give it to Pharaoh Neco.
2 Kings 23:36  Jehoiakim was twenty-five years old when he began to reign, and he reigned eleven years in Jerusalem. His mother's name was Zebidah the daughter of Pedaiah of Rumah.
2 Kings 23:37 And he did what was evil in the sight of the LORD, according to all that his fathers had done.
2 Kings 24:1  In his days, Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon came up, and Jehoiakim became his servant for three years. Then he turned and rebelled against him.
2 Kings 24:2 And the LORD sent against him bands of the according to the word of the LORD that he spoke by his servants the prophets.
2 Kings 24:3 Surely this came upon Judah at the command of the LORD, to remove them out of his sight, for the sins of Manasseh, according to all that he had done,
2 Kings 24:4 and also for the innocent blood that he had shed. For he filled Jerusalem with innocent blood, and the LORD would not pardon.
2 Kings 24:5  Now the rest of the deeds of Jehoiakim and all that he did, are they not written in the Book of the Chronicles of the Kings of Judah?
2 Kings 24:6 So Jehoiakim slept with his fathers, and Jehoiachin his son reigned in his place.
2 Kings 24:7  from the Brook of Egypt to the river Euphrates.
2 Kings 24:8  eighteen years old when he became king, and he reigned three months in Jerusalem. His mother's name was Nehushta the daughter of Elnathan of Jerusalem.
2 Kings 24:9 And he did what was evil in the sight of the LORD, according to all that his father had done.
2 Kings 24:10 At that time the servants of Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon came up to Jerusalem, and the city was besieged.
2 Kings 24:11 And Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon came to the city while his servants were besieging it,
2 Kings 24:12  in the eighth year of his reign
2 Kings 24:13 and carried off all the treasures of the house of the LORD as the LORD had foretold.
2 Kings 24:14  except the poorest people of the land.
2 Kings 24:15  And he carried away Jehoiachin to Babylon. The king's mother, the king's wives, his officials, and the chief men of the land he took into captivity from Jerusalem to Babylon.
2 Kings 24:16 And the king of Babylon brought captive to Babylon all the men of valor, 7,000, and the craftsmen and the metal workers, 1,000, all of them strong and fit for war.
2 Kings 24:17  and changed his name to Zedekiah.
2 Kings 24:18  Hamutal the daughter of Jeremiah of Libnah.
2 Kings 24:19 And he did what was evil in the sight of the LORD, according to all that Jehoiakim had done.
2 Kings 24:20 For because of the anger of the LORD it came to the point in Jerusalem and Judah that he cast them out from his presence. And Zedekiah rebelled against the king of Babylon.
2 Kings 25:1  And they built siegeworks all around it.
2 Kings 25:2 So the city was besieged till the eleventh year of King Zedekiah.
2 Kings 25:3 On the ninth day of the fourth month the famine was so severe in the city that there was no food for the people of the land.
2 Kings 25:4 Then a breach was made in the city, and all the men of war fled by night by the way of the gate between the two walls, by Arabah.
2 Kings 25:5 But the army of the Chaldeans pursued the king and overtook him in the plains of Jericho, and all his army was scattered from him.
2 Kings 25:6 Then they captured the king Riblah, and they passed sentence on him.
2 Kings 25:7 They slaughtered the sons of Zedekiah before his eyes, and put out the eyes of Zedekiah and bound him in chains and took him to Babylon.
2 Kings 25:8  the seventh day of the month — that was the nineteenth year of King Nebuchadnezzar, king of Babylon — Nebuzaradan, the captain of the bodyguard, a servant of the king of Babylon, came to Jerusalem.
2 Kings 25:9  and the king's house and all the houses of Jerusalem; every great house he burned down.
2 Kings 25:10 And all the army of the Chaldeans, who were with the captain of the guard, broke down the walls around Jerusalem.
2 Kings 25:11  And the rest of the people who were left in the city and the deserters who had deserted to the king of Babylon, together with the rest of the multitude, Nebuzaradan the captain of the guard carried into exile.
2 Kings 25:12 But the captain of the guard left some of the poorest of the land to be vinedressers and plowmen.
2 Kings 25:13  the bronze sea that were in the house of the LORD, the Chaldeans broke in pieces and carried the bronze to Babylon.
2 Kings 25:14  And they took away the pots and the shovels and the snuffers and the dishes for incense and all the vessels of bronze used in the temple service,
2 Kings 25:15 the fire pans also and the bowls. What was of gold the captain of the guard took away as gold, and what was of silver, as silver.
2 Kings 25:16 As for the two pillars, the one sea, and the stands that Solomon had made for the house of the LORD, the bronze of all these vessels was beyond weight.
2 Kings 25:17   and on it was a capital of bronze. The height of the capital was three cubits. A latticework and pomegranates, all of bronze, were all around the capital. And the second pillar had the same, with the latticework.
2 Kings 25:18  Zephaniah the second priest and the three keepers of the threshold;
2 Kings 25:19 and from the city he took an officer who had been in command of the men of war, and five men of the king's council who were found in the city; and the secretary of the commander of the army, who mustered the people of the land; and sixty men of the people of the land, who were found in the city.
2 Kings 25:20 And Nebuzaradan the captain of the guard took them and brought them to the king of Babylon at Riblah.
2 Kings 25:21 And the king of Babylon struck them down and put them to death at So Judah was taken into exile out of its land.
2 Kings 25:22 And over the people who remained in the land of Judah, whom Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon had left, he appointed Ahikam, son of Shaphan, governor.
2 Kings 25:23  Mizpah, namely, Ishmael the son of Nethaniah, and Johanan the son of Kareah, and Seraiah the son of Tanhumeth the Netophathite, and Jaazaniah the son of the Maacathite.
2 Kings 25:24 And Gedaliah swore to them and their men, saying, “Do not be afraid because of the Chaldean officials. Live in the land and serve the king of Babylon, and it shall be well with you.”
2 Kings 25:25  Ishmael the son of Nethaniah, son of Elishama, of the royal family, came with ten men and struck down Gedaliah and put him to death along with the Jews and the Chaldeans who were with him at Mizpah.
2 Kings 25:26  Then all the people, both small and great, and the captains of the forces arose and went to Egypt, for they were afraid of the Chaldeans.
2 Kings 25:27   Jehoiachin king of Judah from prison.
2 Kings 25:28 And he spoke kindly to him and gave him a seat above the seats of the kings who were with him in Babylon.
2 Kings 25:29 So Jehoiachin put off his prison garments. And every day of his life he dined regularly at the king's table,
2 Kings 25:30 and for his allowance, a regular allowance was given him by the king, according to his daily needs, as long as he lived.
1 Chronicles 1:1  Adam, Seth, Enosh;
1 Chronicles 1:2  Kenan, Mahalalel, Jared;
1 Chronicles 1:3 Enoch, Methuselah, Lamech;
1 Chronicles 1:4 Noah, Shem, Ham, and Japheth.
1 Chronicles 1:5  The sons of Japheth: Gomer, Magog, Madai, Javan, Tubal, Meshech, and Tiras.
1 Chronicles 1:6 The sons of Gomer: Ashkenaz, Riphath,  and Togarmah.
1 Chronicles 1:7 The sons of Javan: Elishah, Tarshish, Kittim, and Rodanim.
1 Chronicles 1:8  The sons of Ham: Cush, Egypt, Put, and Canaan.
1 Chronicles 1:9 The sons of Cush: Seba, Havilah, Sabta, Raamah, and Sabteca. The sons of Raamah: Sheba and Dedan.
1 Chronicles 1:10 Cush fathered Nimrod. He was the first on earth to be a mighty man.
1 Chronicles 1:11  Egypt fathered Ludim, Anamim, Lehabim, Naphtuhim,
1 Chronicles 1:12 Pathrusim, Casluhim (from whom the Philistines came), and Caphtorim.
1 Chronicles 1:13 Canaan fathered Sidon his firstborn and Heth,
1 Chronicles 1:14 and the Jebusites, the Amorites, the Girgashites,
1 Chronicles 1:15 the Hivites, the Arkites, the Sinites,
1 Chronicles 1:16 the Arvadites, the Zemarites, and the Hamathites.
1 Chronicles 1:17   Uz, Hul, Gether, and Meshech.
1 Chronicles 1:18 Arpachshad fathered Shelah, and Shelah fathered Eber.
1 Chronicles 1:19 To Eber were born two sons: the name of the one was Peleg  (for in his days the earth was divided), and his brother's name was Joktan.
1 Chronicles 1:20 Joktan fathered Almodad, Sheleph, Hazarmaveth, Jerah,
1 Chronicles 1:21 Hadoram, Uzal, Diklah,
1 Chronicles 1:22 Obal,  Abimael, Sheba,
1 Chronicles 1:23 Ophir, Havilah, and Jobab; all these were the sons of Joktan.
1 Chronicles 1:24  Shem, Arpachshad, Shelah;
1 Chronicles 1:25 Eber, Peleg, Reu;
1 Chronicles 1:26 Serug, Nahor, Terah;
1 Chronicles 1:27 Abram, that is, Abraham.
1 Chronicles 1:28 The sons of Abraham: Ishmael.
1 Chronicles 1:29  These are their genealogies: the firstborn of Ishmael, Nebaioth, and Kedar, Adbeel, Mibsam,
1 Chronicles 1:30 Mishma, Dumah, Massa, Hadad, Tema,
1 Chronicles 1:31 Jetur, Naphish, and Kedemah. These are the sons of Ishmael.
1 Chronicles 1:32  The sons of Keturah, Abraham's concubine: she bore Zimran, Jokshan, Medan, Midian, Ishbak, and Shuah. The sons of Jokshan: Sheba and Dedan.
1 Chronicles 1:33 The sons of Midian: Ephah, Epher, Hanoch, Abida, and Eldaah. All these were the descendants of Keturah.
1 Chronicles 1:34 Abraham fathered Israel.
1 Chronicles 1:35  The sons of Esau: Eliphaz, Reuel, Jeush, Jalam, and Korah.
1 Chronicles 1:36 The sons of Eliphaz: Teman, Omar, Zepho, Gatam, Kenaz, and of Timna,  Amalek.
1 Chronicles 1:37 The sons of Reuel: Nahath, Zerah, Shammah, and Mizzah.
1 Chronicles 1:38  The sons of Seir: Lotan, Shobal, Zibeon, Anah, Dishon, Ezer, and Dishan.
1 Chronicles 1:39 The sons of Lotan: Hori and Hemam;  and Lotan's sister was Timna.
1 Chronicles 1:40 The sons of Shobal: Alvan,  and Onam. The sons of Zibeon: Aiah and Anah.
1 Chronicles 1:41 The son  Eshban, Ithran, and Cheran.
1 Chronicles 1:42 The sons of Ezer: Bilhan, Zaavan, and Akan.  The sons of Dishan: Uz and Aran.
1 Chronicles 1:43  These are the kings who reigned in the land of Edom before any king reigned over the people of Israel: Bela the son of Beor, the name of his city being Dinhabah.
1 Chronicles 1:44 Bela died, and Jobab the son of Zerah of Bozrah reigned in his place.
1 Chronicles 1:45 Jobab died, and Husham of the land of the Temanites reigned in his place.
1 Chronicles 1:46 Husham died, and Hadad the son of Bedad, who defeated Midian in the country of Moab, reigned in his place, the name of his city being Avith.
1 Chronicles 1:47 Hadad died, and Samlah of Masrekah reigned in his place.
1 Chronicles 1:48 Samlah died, and Shaul of Rehoboth on the Euphrates  reigned in his place.
1 Chronicles 1:49 Shaul died, and Baal-hanan, the son of Achbor, reigned in his place.
1 Chronicles 1:50 Baal-hanan died, and Hadad reigned in his place, the name of his city being Pai; and his wife's name was Mehetabel, the daughter of Matred, the daughter of Mezahab.
1 Chronicles 1:51 And Hadad died. The chiefs of Edom were: chiefs Timna, Alvah, Jetheth,
1 Chronicles 1:52 Oholibamah, Elah, Pinon,
1 Chronicles 1:53 Kenaz, Teman, Mibzar,
1 Chronicles 1:54 Magdiel, and Iram; these are the chiefs of Edom.
1 Chronicles 2:1 These are the sons of Issachar, Zebulun,
1 Chronicles 2:2  Gad, and Asher.
1 Chronicles 2:3  Er, Onan and Shelah; these three Bath-shua the Canaanite bore to him. Now Er, Judah's firstborn, was evil in the sight of the LORD, and he put him to death.
1 Chronicles 2:4 His daughter-in-law Tamar also bore him Perez and Zerah. Judah had five sons in all.
1 Chronicles 2:5 The sons of Perez: Hezron and Hamul.
1 Chronicles 2:6 The sons of Zerah: Zimri, Ethan, Heman, Calcol, and Dara, five in all.
1 Chronicles 2:7 The son broke faith in the matter of the devoted thing;
1 Chronicles 2:8 and Ethan's son was Azariah.
1 Chronicles 2:9 The sons of Hezron that were born to him: Jerahmeel, Chelubai.
1 Chronicles 2:10  Nahshon, prince of the sons of Judah.
1 Chronicles 2:11 Nahshon fathered Boaz,
1 Chronicles 2:12 Boaz fathered Obed, Obed fathered Jesse.
1 Chronicles 2:13  Shimea the third,
1 Chronicles 2:14 Nethanel the fourth, Raddai the fifth,
1 Chronicles 2:15 Ozem the sixth, David the seventh.
1 Chronicles 2:16 And their sisters were Zeruiah and Abigail. The sons of Zeruiah: Abishai, Joab, and Asahel, three.
1 Chronicles 2:17  Jether the Ishmaelite.
1 Chronicles 2:18  Caleb the son of Hezron fathered children by his wife Azubah, and by Jerioth; and these were her sons: Jesher, Shobab, and Ardon.
1 Chronicles 2:19 When Azubah died, Hur.
1 Chronicles 2:20 Hur fathered Uri, and Uri fathered Bezalel.
1 Chronicles 2:21 Afterward Hezron went in to the daughter of Machir the father of Gilead, whom he married when he was sixty years old, and she bore him Segub.
1 Chronicles 2:22 And Segub fathered Jair, who had twenty-three cities in the land of Gilead.
1 Chronicles 2:23  But Geshur and Aram took from them Havvoth-jair, Kenath, and its villages, sixty towns. All these were descendants of Machir, the father of Gilead.
1 Chronicles 2:24 After the death of Hezron, Ashhur, the father of Tekoa.
1 Chronicles 2:25 The sons of Jerahmeel, the firstborn of Hezron: Ram, his firstborn, Bunah, Oren, Ozem, and Ahijah.
1 Chronicles 2:26 Jerahmeel also had another wife, whose name was Atarah; she was the mother of Onam.
1 Chronicles 2:27 The sons of Ram, the firstborn of Jerahmeel: Maaz, Jamin, and Eker.
1 Chronicles 2:28 The sons of Onam: Shammai and Jada. The sons of Shammai: Nadab and Abishur.
1 Chronicles 2:29 The name of Abishur's wife was Abihail, and she bore him Ahban and Molid.
1 Chronicles 2:30 The sons of Nadab: Seled and Appaim; and Seled died childless.
1 Chronicles 2:31 The son The son of Ishi: Sheshan. The son of Sheshan: Ahlai.
1 Chronicles 2:32 The sons of Jada, Shammai's brother: Jether and Jonathan; and Jether died childless.
1 Chronicles 2:33 The sons of Jonathan: Peleth and Zaza. These were the descendants of Jerahmeel.
1 Chronicles 2:34 Now Sheshan had no sons, only daughters, but Sheshan had an Egyptian slave whose name was Jarha.
1 Chronicles 2:35 So Sheshan gave his daughter in marriage to Jarha his slave, and she bore him Attai.
1 Chronicles 2:36 Attai fathered Nathan, and Nathan fathered Zabad.
1 Chronicles 2:37  Obed.
1 Chronicles 2:38 Obed fathered Jehu, and Jehu fathered Azariah.
1 Chronicles 2:39 Azariah fathered Helez, and Helez fathered Eleasah.
1 Chronicles 2:40 Eleasah fathered Sismai, and Sismai fathered Shallum.
1 Chronicles 2:41 Shallum fathered Jekamiah, and Jekamiah fathered Elishama.
1 Chronicles 2:42 The sons of
1 Chronicles 2:43 The sons of Hebron: Korah, Tappuah, Rekem and Shema.
1 Chronicles 2:44 Shema fathered Raham, the father of Jorkeam; and Rekem fathered Shammai.
1 Chronicles 2:45 The son of Shammai: Maon; and Maon fathered Beth-zur.
1 Chronicles 2:46 Ephah also, Caleb's concubine, bore Haran, Moza, and Gazez; and Haran fathered Gazez.
1 Chronicles 2:47 The sons of Jahdai: Regem, Jotham, Geshan, Pelet, Ephah, and Shaaph.
1 Chronicles 2:48 Maacah, Caleb's concubine, bore Sheber and Tirhanah.
1 Chronicles 2:49 She also bore Shaaph the father of Madmannah, Sheva the father of Machbenah and the father of Gibea; and the daughter of Caleb was Achsah.
1 Chronicles 2:50 These were the descendants of Caleb. The sons Ephrathah: Shobal the father of Kiriath-jearim,
1 Chronicles 2:51  Salma, the father of Bethlehem, and Hareph the father of Beth-gader.
1 Chronicles 2:52 Shobal the father of Kiriath-jearim had other sons: Haroeh, half of the Menuhoth.
1 Chronicles 2:53 And the clans of Kiriath-jearim: the Ithrites, the Puthites, the Shumathites, and the Mishraites; from these came the Zorathites and the Eshtaolites.
1 Chronicles 2:54 The sons of Salma: Bethlehem, the Netophathites, Atroth-beth-joab and half of the Manahathites, the Zorites.
1 Chronicles 2:55 The clans also of the scribes who lived at Jabez: the Tirathites, the Shimeathites and the Sucathites. These are the the house of Rechab.
1 Chronicles 3:1  Daniel, by Abigail the Carmelite,
1 Chronicles 3:2 the third, Absalom, whose mother was Maacah, the daughter of Talmai, king of Geshur; the fourth, Adonijah, whose mother was Haggith;
1 Chronicles 3:3 the fifth, Shephatiah, by Abital; the sixth, Ithream, by his wife Eglah;
1 Chronicles 3:4 six were born to him in Hebron, And he reigned thirty-three years in Jerusalem.
1 Chronicles 3:5  Ammiel;
1 Chronicles 3:6 then Ibhar, Elishama, Eliphelet,
1 Chronicles 3:7 Nogah, Nepheg, Japhia,
1 Chronicles 3:8 Elishama, Eliada, and Eliphelet, nine.
1 Chronicles 3:9 All these were David's sons, besides the sons of the concubines, and Tamar was their sister.
1 Chronicles 3:10 The son of Solomon was Jehoshaphat his son,
1 Chronicles 3:11  Joash his son,
1 Chronicles 3:12  Jotham his son,
1 Chronicles 3:13  Manasseh his son,
1 Chronicles 3:14  Josiah his son.
1 Chronicles 3:15 The sons of Josiah: Zedekiah, the fourth Shallum.
1 Chronicles 3:16 The descendants of Zedekiah his son;
1 Chronicles 3:17 and the sons of Jeconiah, the Shealtiel his son,
1 Chronicles 3:18 Malchiram, Pedaiah, Shenazzar, Jekamiah, Hoshama and Nedabiah;
1 Chronicles 3:19 and the sons of Pedaiah: Zerubbabel: Meshullam and Hananiah, and Shelomith was their sister;
1 Chronicles 3:20 and Hashubah, Ohel, Berechiah, Hasadiah, and Jushab-hesed, five.
1 Chronicles 3:21 The sons of Hananiah: Pelatiah and Jeshaiah, his son  Rephaiah, his son Arnan, his son Obadiah, his son Shecaniah.
1 Chronicles 3:22 The son Hattush, Igal, Bariah, Neariah, and Shaphat, six.
1 Chronicles 3:23 The sons of Neariah: Elioenai, Hizkiah, and Azrikam, three.
1 Chronicles 3:24 The sons of Elioenai: Hodaviah, Eliashib, Pelaiah, Akkub, Johanan, Delaiah, and Anani, seven.
1 Chronicles 4:1  Carmi, Hur, and Shobal.
1 Chronicles 4:2  Zorathites.
1 Chronicles 4:3 These were the sons  of Etam: Jezreel, Ishma, and Idbash; and the name of their sister was Hazzelelponi,
1 Chronicles 4:4 and Ephrathah, the father of Bethlehem.
1 Chronicles 4:5  Ashhur, the father of Tekoa, had two wives, Helah and Naarah;
1 Chronicles 4:6 Naarah bore him Ahuzzam, Hepher, Temeni, and Haahashtari. These were the sons of Naarah.
1 Chronicles 4:7 The sons of Helah: Zereth, Izhar, and Ethnan.
1 Chronicles 4:8 Koz fathered Anub, Zobebah, and the clans of Aharhel, the son of Harum.
1 Chronicles 4:9 Jabez was
1 Chronicles 4:10 Jabez called upon the God of Israel, saying, “Oh that you would bless me and enlarge my border, and that your hand might be with me, and that you would keep me from harm  so that it might not bring me pain!” And God granted what he asked.
1 Chronicles 4:11 Chelub, the brother of Shuhah, fathered Mehir, who fathered Eshton.
1 Chronicles 4:12 Eshton fathered Beth-rapha, Paseah, and Tehinnah, the father of Ir-nahash. These are the men of Recah.
1 Chronicles 4:13 The sons of
1 Chronicles 4:14 Meonothai fathered Ophrah; and Seraiah fathered Joab, the father of Ge-harashim,  so-called because they were craftsmen.
1 Chronicles 4:15 The sons of  of Elah: Kenaz.
1 Chronicles 4:16 The sons of Jehallelel: Ziph, Ziphah, Tiria, and Asarel.
1 Chronicles 4:17 The sons of Ezrah: Jether, Mered, Epher, and Jalon. These are the sons of Bithiah, the daughter of Pharaoh, whom Mered married;  Miriam, Shammai, and Ishbah, the father of Eshtemoa.
1 Chronicles 4:18 And his Judahite wife bore Jered the father of Gedor, Heber the father of Soco, and Jekuthiel the father of Zanoah.
1 Chronicles 4:19 The sons of the wife of Hodiah, the sister of Naham, were the fathers of Keilah the Garmite and Eshtemoa the Maacathite.
1 Chronicles 4:20 The sons of Shimon: Amnon, Rinnah, Ben-hanan, and Tilon. The sons of Ishi: Zoheth and Ben-zoheth.
1 Chronicles 4:21 The sons of Shelah the son of Judah: Er the father of Lecah, Laadah the father of Mareshah, and the clans of the house of linen workers at Beth-ashbea;
1 Chronicles 4:22 and Jokim, and the men of Cozeba, and Joash, and Saraph, who ruled in Moab and returned to Lehem  are ancient).
1 Chronicles 4:23 These were the potters who were inhabitants of Netaim and Gederah. They lived there in the king's service.
1 Chronicles 4:24  The sons of Simeon: Nemuel, Jamin, Jarib, Zerah, Shaul;
1 Chronicles 4:25 Shallum was his son, Mibsam his son, Mishma his son.
1 Chronicles 4:26 The sons of Mishma: Hammuel his son, Zaccur his son, Shimei his son.
1 Chronicles 4:27 Shimei had sixteen sons and six daughters; but his brothers did not have many children, like the men of Judah.
1 Chronicles 4:28  They lived in Beersheba, Moladah, Hazar-shual,
1 Chronicles 4:29  Tolad,
1 Chronicles 4:30  Bethuel, Hormah, Ziklag,
1 Chronicles 4:31 Beth-marcaboth, Shaaraim. These were their cities until David reigned.
1 Chronicles 4:32 And their villages were Etam, Ain, Rimmon, Tochen, and Ashan, five cities,
1 Chronicles 4:33 along with all their villages that were around these cities as far as Baal. These were their settlements, and they kept a genealogical record.
1 Chronicles 4:34 Meshobab, Jamlech, Joshah the son of Amaziah,
1 Chronicles 4:35 Joel, Jehu the son of Joshibiah, son of Seraiah, son of Asiel,
1 Chronicles 4:36 Elioenai, Jaakobah, Jeshohaiah, Asaiah, Adiel, Jesimiel, Benaiah,
1 Chronicles 4:37 Ziza the son of Shiphi, son of Allon, son of Jedaiah, son of Shimri, son of Shemaiah —
1 Chronicles 4:38 these mentioned by name were princes in their clans, and their fathers' houses increased greatly.
1 Chronicles 4:39 They journeyed to the entrance of Gedor, to the east side of the valley, to seek pasture for their flocks,
1 Chronicles 4:40 where they found rich, good pasture, and the land was very broad, quiet, and peaceful, for the former inhabitants there belonged to Ham.
1 Chronicles 4:41  and settled in their place, because there was pasture there for their flocks.
1 Chronicles 4:42 And some of them, five hundred men of the Simeonites, went to Mount Seir, having as their leaders Pelatiah, Neariah, Rephaiah, and Uzziel, the sons of Ishi.
1 Chronicles 4:43 And they defeated the remnant of the Amalekites who had escaped, and they have lived there to this day.
1 Chronicles 5:1 The sons of Reuben the firstborn of Israel ( his birthright was given to the sons of Joseph the son of Israel, so that he could not be enrolled as the oldest son;
1 Chronicles 5:2  chief came from him, yet the birthright belonged to Joseph),
1 Chronicles 5:3 the sons of Reuben, the firstborn of Israel: Hanoch, Pallu, Hezron, and Carmi.
1 Chronicles 5:4 The sons of Joel: Shemaiah his son, Gog his son, Shimei his son,
1 Chronicles 5:5 Micah his son, Reaiah his son, Baal his son,
1 Chronicles 5:6 Beerah his son, whom  king of Assyria carried away into exile; he was a chief of the Reubenites.
1 Chronicles 5:7 And his kinsmen by their clans, when the genealogy of their generations was recorded: the chief, Jeiel, and Zechariah,
1 Chronicles 5:8 and Bela the son of Azaz, son of Baal-meon.
1 Chronicles 5:9 He also lived to the east as far as the entrance of the desert this side of the Euphrates, because their livestock had multiplied in the land of Gilead.
1 Chronicles 5:10 And in the days of Saul they waged war against the Hagrites, who fell into their hand. And they lived in their tents throughout all the region east of Gilead.
1 Chronicles 5:11 The sons of Gad lived over against them in the land of Bashan as far as Salecah:
1 Chronicles 5:12 Joel the chief, Shapham the second, Janai, and Shaphat in Bashan.
1 Chronicles 5:13 And their kinsmen according to their fathers' houses: Michael, Meshullam, Sheba, Jorai, Jacan, Zia and Eber, seven.
1 Chronicles 5:14 These were the sons of Abihail the son of Huri, son of Jaroah, son of Gilead, son of Michael, son of Jeshishai, son of Jahdo, son of Buz.
1 Chronicles 5:15 Ahi the son of Abdiel, son of Guni, was chief in their fathers' houses,
1 Chronicles 5:16 and they lived in Gilead, in Bashan and in its towns, and in all the pasturelands of Sharon to their limits.
1 Chronicles 5:17 All of these were recorded in genealogies in the days of Jeroboam king of Israel.
1 Chronicles 5:18 The Reubenites, the Gadites, and the half-tribe of Manasseh had valiant men who carried shield and sword, and drew the bow, expert in war, 44,760, able to go to war.
1 Chronicles 5:19 They waged war against the Jetur, Naphish, and Nodab.
1 Chronicles 5:20 And when they prevailed because they trusted in him.
1 Chronicles 5:21 They carried off their livestock: 50,000 of their camels, 250,000 sheep, 2,000 donkeys, and 100,000 men alive.
1 Chronicles 5:22 For many fell, because the war was of God. And they lived the exile.
1 Chronicles 5:23 The members of the half-tribe of Manasseh lived in the land. They were very numerous from Bashan to Baal-hermon, Senir, and Mount Hermon.
1 Chronicles 5:24 These were the heads of their fathers' houses: Epher,  Ishi, Eliel, Azriel, Jeremiah, Hodaviah, and Jahdiel, mighty warriors, famous men, heads of their fathers' houses.
1 Chronicles 5:25 But they broke faith with the God of their fathers, and after the gods of the peoples of the land, whom God had destroyed before them.
1 Chronicles 5:26 So the God of Israel stirred up the spirit of the river Gozan, to this day.
1 Chronicles 6:1  The sons of Levi: Gershon, Kohath, and Merari.
1 Chronicles 6:2  The sons of Kohath: Amram, Izhar, Hebron, and Uzziel.
1 Chronicles 6:3  The sons of Aaron: Nadab, Abihu, Eleazar, and Ithamar.
1 Chronicles 6:4  Phinehas, Phinehas fathered Abishua,
1 Chronicles 6:5 Abishua fathered Bukki, Bukki fathered Uzzi,
1 Chronicles 6:6 Uzzi fathered Zerahiah, Zerahiah fathered Meraioth,
1 Chronicles 6:7 Meraioth fathered Amariah, Amariah fathered Ahitub,
1 Chronicles 6:8  Zadok, Zadok fathered Ahimaaz,
1 Chronicles 6:9 Ahimaaz fathered Azariah, Azariah fathered Johanan,
1 Chronicles 6:10 and Johanan fathered Azariah ( in the house that Solomon built in Jerusalem).
1 Chronicles 6:11  Amariah, Amariah fathered Ahitub,
1 Chronicles 6:12 Ahitub fathered Zadok, Zadok fathered Shallum,
1 Chronicles 6:13 Shallum fathered Hilkiah, Hilkiah fathered Azariah,
1 Chronicles 6:14 Azariah fathered Seraiah, Seraiah fathered Jehozadak;
1 Chronicles 6:15 and by the hand of Nebuchadnezzar.
1 Chronicles 6:16  sons of Levi: Gershom, Kohath, and Merari.
1 Chronicles 6:17 And these are the names of the sons of Gershom: Libni and Shimei.
1 Chronicles 6:18  The sons of Kohath: Amram, Izhar, Hebron and Uzziel.
1 Chronicles 6:19  The sons of Merari: Mahli and Mushi. These are the clans of the Levites according to their fathers.
1 Chronicles 6:20  Jahath his son, Zimmah his son,
1 Chronicles 6:21 Joah his son, Iddo his son, Zerah his son, Jeatherai his son.
1 Chronicles 6:22  The sons of Kohath: Amminadab his son, Korah his son, Assir his son,
1 Chronicles 6:23 Elkanah his son, Ebiasaph his son, Assir his son,
1 Chronicles 6:24 Tahath his son, Uriel his son, Uzziah his son, and Shaul his son.
1 Chronicles 6:25 The sons of Elkanah: Amasai and Ahimoth,
1 Chronicles 6:26 Elkanah his son, Zophai his son, Nahath his son,
1 Chronicles 6:27 Eliab his son, Jeroham his son, Elkanah his son.
1 Chronicles 6:28 The sons of Samuel: Joel
1 Chronicles 6:29  The sons of Merari: Mahli, Libni his son, Shimei his son, Uzzah his son,
1 Chronicles 6:30 Shimea his son, Haggiah his son, and Asaiah his son.
1 Chronicles 6:31 These are the men after the ark rested there.
1 Chronicles 6:32 They ministered with song before the tabernacle of the tent of meeting until Solomon built the house of the LORD in Jerusalem, and they performed their service according to their order.
1 Chronicles 6:33 These are the men who served and their sons. Of the sons of the Kohathites: Heman the singer the son of Joel, son of Samuel,
1 Chronicles 6:34 son of Elkanah, son of Jeroham, son of Eliel, son of Toah,
1 Chronicles 6:35 son of Zuph, son of Elkanah, son of Mahath, son of Amasai,
1 Chronicles 6:36 son of Elkanah, son of Joel, son of Azariah, son of Zephaniah,
1 Chronicles 6:37 son of Tahath, son of Assir, son of Ebiasaph, son of Korah,
1 Chronicles 6:38 son of Izhar, son of Kohath, son of Levi, son of Israel;
1 Chronicles 6:39 and his brother Asaph, who stood on his right hand, namely, Asaph the son of Berechiah, son of Shimea,
1 Chronicles 6:40 son of Michael, son of Baaseiah, son of Malchijah,
1 Chronicles 6:41 son of Ethni, son of Zerah, son of Adaiah,
1 Chronicles 6:42 son of Ethan, son of Zimmah, son of Shimei,
1 Chronicles 6:43 son of Jahath, son of Gershom, son of Levi.
1 Chronicles 6:44 On the left hand were their brothers, the sons of Merari: Ethan the son of Kishi, son of Abdi, son of Malluch,
1 Chronicles 6:45 son of Hashabiah, son of Amaziah, son of Hilkiah,
1 Chronicles 6:46 son of Amzi, son of Bani, son of Shemer,
1 Chronicles 6:47 son of Mahli, son of Mushi, son of Merari, son of Levi.
1 Chronicles 6:48 And their brothers the Levites were appointed for all the service of the tabernacle of the house of God.
1 Chronicles 6:49 But Aaron and his sons made offerings to make atonement for Israel, according to all that Moses the servant of God had commanded.
1 Chronicles 6:50  These are the sons of Aaron: Eleazar his son, Phinehas his son, Abishua his son,
1 Chronicles 6:51 Bukki his son, Uzzi his son, Zerahiah his son,
1 Chronicles 6:52 Meraioth his son, Amariah his son, Ahitub his son,
1 Chronicles 6:53 Zadok his son, Ahimaaz his son.
1 Chronicles 6:54 These are their dwelling places according to their clans of Kohathites, for theirs was the first lot,
1 Chronicles 6:55 to them they gave Hebron in the land of Judah and its surrounding pasturelands,
1 Chronicles 6:56  but the fields of the city and its villages they gave to Caleb the son of Jephunneh.
1 Chronicles 6:57  To the sons of Aaron they gave the cities of refuge: Hebron, Libnah with its pasturelands, Jattir, Eshtemoa with its pasturelands,
1 Chronicles 6:58 Hilen with its pasturelands, Debir with its pasturelands,
1 Chronicles 6:59 Ashan with its pasturelands, and Beth-shemesh with its pasturelands;
1 Chronicles 6:60 and from the tribe of Benjamin, Gibeon,  Geba with its pasturelands, Alemeth with its pasturelands, and Anathoth with its pasturelands. All their cities throughout their clans were thirteen.
1 Chronicles 6:61  To the rest of the Kohathites were given by lot out of the clan of the tribe, out of the half-tribe, the half of Manasseh, ten cities.
1 Chronicles 6:62 To the Gershomites according to their clans were allotted thirteen cities out of the tribes of Issachar, Asher, Naphtali and Manasseh in Bashan.
1 Chronicles 6:63  To the Merarites according to their clans were allotted twelve cities out of the tribes of Reuben, Gad, and Zebulun.
1 Chronicles 6:64  So the people of Israel gave the Levites the cities with their pasturelands.
1 Chronicles 6:65 They gave by lot out of the tribes of Judah, Simeon, and Benjamin these cities that are mentioned by name.
1 Chronicles 6:66  And some of the clans of the sons of Kohath had cities of their territory out of the tribe of Ephraim.
1 Chronicles 6:67 They were given the cities of refuge: Shechem with its pasturelands in the hill country of Ephraim, Gezer with its pasturelands,
1 Chronicles 6:68  Jokmeam with its pasturelands, Beth-horon with its pasturelands,
1 Chronicles 6:69 Aijalon with its pasturelands, Gath-rimmon with its pasturelands,
1 Chronicles 6:70 and out of the half-tribe of Manasseh, Aner with its pasturelands, and Bileam with its pasturelands, for the rest of the clans of the Kohathites.
1 Chronicles 6:71  Ashtaroth with its pasturelands;
1 Chronicles 6:72 and out of the tribe of Issachar: Kedesh with its pasturelands, Daberath with its pasturelands,
1 Chronicles 6:73 Ramoth with its pasturelands, and Anem with its pasturelands;
1 Chronicles 6:74 out of the tribe of Asher: Mashal with its pasturelands, Abdon with its pasturelands,
1 Chronicles 6:75 Hukok with its pasturelands, and Rehob with its pasturelands;
1 Chronicles 6:76 and out of the tribe of Naphtali: Kedesh in Galilee with its pasturelands, Hammon with its pasturelands, and Kiriathaim with its pasturelands.
1 Chronicles 6:77  Tabor with its pasturelands,
1 Chronicles 6:78 and beyond the Jordan at Jericho, on the east side of the Jordan, out of the tribe of Reuben: Bezer in the wilderness with its pasturelands, Jahzah with its pasturelands,
1 Chronicles 6:79 Kedemoth with its pasturelands, and Mephaath with its pasturelands;
1 Chronicles 6:80 and out of the tribe of Gad: Mahanaim with its pasturelands,
1 Chronicles 6:81  Jazer with its pasturelands.
1 Chronicles 7:1 The sons Jashub, and Shimron, four.
1 Chronicles 7:2 The sons of Tola: Uzzi, Rephaiah, Jeriel, Jahmai, Ibsam, and Shemuel, heads of their fathers' houses, namely of Tola, mighty warriors of their generations, their number in the days of David being 22,600.
1 Chronicles 7:3 The son  of Uzzi: Izrahiah. And the sons of Izrahiah: Michael, Obadiah, Joel, and Isshiah, all five of them were chief men.
1 Chronicles 7:4 And along with them, by their generations, according to their fathers' houses, were units of the army for war, 36,000, for they had many wives and sons.
1 Chronicles 7:5 Their kinsmen belonging to all the clans of Issachar were in all 87,000 mighty warriors, enrolled by genealogy.
1 Chronicles 7:6  The sons of Benjamin: Bela, Becher, and Jediael, three.
1 Chronicles 7:7 The sons of Bela: Ezbon, Uzzi, Uzziel, Jerimoth, and Iri, five, heads of fathers' houses, mighty warriors. And their enrollment by genealogies was 22,034.
1 Chronicles 7:8 The sons of Becher: Zemirah, Joash, Eliezer, Elioenai, Omri, Jeremoth, Abijah, Anathoth, and Alemeth. All these were the sons of Becher.
1 Chronicles 7:9 And their enrollment by genealogies, according to their generations, as heads of their fathers' houses, mighty warriors, was 20,200.
1 Chronicles 7:10 The son of Jediael: Bilhan. And the sons of Bilhan: Jeush, Benjamin, Ehud, Chenaanah, Zethan, Tarshish, and Ahishahar.
1 Chronicles 7:11 All these were the sons of Jediael according to the heads of their fathers' houses, mighty warriors, 17,200, able to go to war.
1 Chronicles 7:12 And Shuppim and Huppim were the sons of Ir, Hushim the son of Aher.
1 Chronicles 7:13  Shallum, the descendants of Bilhah.
1 Chronicles 7:14  Machir the father of Gilead.
1 Chronicles 7:15 And Machir took a wife for Huppim and for Shuppim. The name of his sister was Maacah. And the name of the second was Zelophehad, and Zelophehad had daughters.
1 Chronicles 7:16 And Maacah the wife of Machir bore a son, and she called his name Peresh; and the name of his brother was Sheresh; and his sons were Ulam and Rakem.
1 Chronicles 7:17 The son of Ulam: Bedan. These were the sons of Gilead the son of Machir, son of Manasseh.
1 Chronicles 7:18 And his sister Hammolecheth bore Ishhod, Abiezer, and Mahlah.
1 Chronicles 7:19 The sons of Shemida were Ahian, Shechem, Likhi, and Aniam.
1 Chronicles 7:20 The sons of Ephraim: Shuthelah, and Bered his son, Tahath his son, Eleadah his son, Tahath his son,
1 Chronicles 7:21 Zabad his son, Shuthelah his son, and Ezer and Elead, whom the men of Gath who were born in the land killed, because they came down to raid their livestock.
1 Chronicles 7:22 And Ephraim their father mourned many days, and his brothers came to comfort him.
1 Chronicles 7:23 And Ephraim went in to his wife, and she conceived and bore a son. And he called his name Beriah, because disaster had befallen his house.
1 Chronicles 7:24 His daughter was Sheerah, who built both Lower and Upper Beth-horon, and Uzzen-sheerah.
1 Chronicles 7:25 Rephah was his son, Resheph his son, Telah his son, Tahan his son,
1 Chronicles 7:26 Ladan his son, Ammihud his son, Elishama his son,
1 Chronicles 7:27 Nun Joshua his son.
1 Chronicles 7:28  Gezer and its towns, Shechem and its towns, and Ayyah and its towns;
1 Chronicles 7:29  Beth-shean and its towns, Taanach and its towns, Megiddo and its towns, Dor and its towns. In these lived the sons of Joseph the son of Israel.
1 Chronicles 7:30  The sons of Asher: Imnah, Ishvah, Ishvi, Beriah, and their sister Serah.
1 Chronicles 7:31 The sons of Beriah: Heber, and Malchiel, who fathered Birzaith.
1 Chronicles 7:32 Heber fathered Japhlet, Shomer, Hotham, and their sister Shua.
1 Chronicles 7:33 The sons of Japhlet: Pasach, Bimhal, and Ashvath. These are the sons of Japhlet.
1 Chronicles 7:34 The sons of Shemer his brother: Rohgah, Jehubbah, and Aram.
1 Chronicles 7:35 The sons of Helem his brother: Zophah, Imna, Shelesh, and Amal.
1 Chronicles 7:36 The sons of Zophah: Suah, Harnepher, Shual, Beri, Imrah.
1 Chronicles 7:37 Bezer, Hod, Shamma, Shilshah, Ithran, and Beera.
1 Chronicles 7:38 The sons of Jether: Jephunneh, Pispa, and Ara.
1 Chronicles 7:39 The sons of Ulla: Arah, Hanniel, and Rizia.
1 Chronicles 7:40 All of these were men of Asher, heads of fathers' houses, approved, mighty warriors, chiefs of the princes. Their number enrolled by genealogies, for service in war, was 26,000 men.
1 Chronicles 8:1  Aharah the third,
1 Chronicles 8:2 Nohah the fourth, and Rapha the fifth.
1 Chronicles 8:3 And Bela had sons: Addar, Gera, Abihud,
1 Chronicles 8:4 Abishua, Naaman, Ahoah,
1 Chronicles 8:5 Gera, Shephuphan, and Huram.
1 Chronicles 8:6 These are the sons of Ehud (they were heads of fathers' houses of the inhabitants of Geba, and they were carried into exile to Manahath):
1 Chronicles 8:7 Naaman,  Uzza and Ahihud.
1 Chronicles 8:8 And Shaharaim fathered sons in the country of Moab after he had sent away Hushim and Baara his wives.
1 Chronicles 8:9 He fathered sons by Hodesh his wife: Jobab, Zibia, Mesha, Malcam,
1 Chronicles 8:10 Jeuz, Sachia, and Mirmah. These were his sons, heads of fathers' houses.
1 Chronicles 8:11 He also fathered sons by Hushim: Abitub and Elpaal.
1 Chronicles 8:12 The sons of Elpaal: Eber, Misham, and Shemed, who built Lod with its towns,
1 Chronicles 8:13 and Beriah and Aijalon, who caused the inhabitants of Gath to flee);
1 Chronicles 8:14 and Ahio, Shashak, and Jeremoth.
1 Chronicles 8:15 Zebadiah, Arad, Eder,
1 Chronicles 8:16 Michael, Ishpah, and Joha were sons of Beriah.
1 Chronicles 8:17 Zebadiah, Meshullam, Hizki, Heber,
1 Chronicles 8:18 Ishmerai, Izliah, and Jobab were the sons of Elpaal.
1 Chronicles 8:19 Jakim, Zichri, Zabdi,
1 Chronicles 8:20 Elienai, Zillethai, Eliel,
1 Chronicles 8:21 Adaiah, Beraiah, and Shimrath were the sons of Shimei.
1 Chronicles 8:22 Ishpan, Eber, Eliel,
1 Chronicles 8:23 Abdon, Zichri, Hanan,
1 Chronicles 8:24 Hananiah, Elam, Anthothijah,
1 Chronicles 8:25 Iphdeiah, and Penuel were the sons of Shashak.
1 Chronicles 8:26 Shamsherai, Shehariah, Athaliah,
1 Chronicles 8:27 Jaareshiah, Elijah, and Zichri were the sons of Jeroham.
1 Chronicles 8:28 These were the heads of fathers' houses, according to their generations, chief men. These lived in Jerusalem.
1 Chronicles 8:29   the father of Gibeon lived in Gibeon, and the name of his wife was Maacah.
1 Chronicles 8:30 His firstborn son: Abdon, then Zur, Kish, Baal, Nadab,
1 Chronicles 8:31 Gedor, Ahio, Zecher,
1 Chronicles 8:32 and Mikloth (he fathered Shimeah). Now these also lived opposite their kinsmen in Jerusalem, with their kinsmen.
1 Chronicles 8:33  Jonathan, Malchi-shua, Abinadab and Eshbaal;
1 Chronicles 8:34 and the son of Jonathan was Merib-baal; and Merib-baal was the father of Micah.
1 Chronicles 8:35 The sons of Micah: Pithon, Melech, Tarea, and Ahaz.
1 Chronicles 8:36 Ahaz fathered Jehoaddah, and Jehoaddah fathered Alemeth, Azmaveth, and Zimri. Zimri fathered Moza.
1 Chronicles 8:37 Moza fathered Binea; Raphah was his son, Eleasah his son, Azel his son.
1 Chronicles 8:38 Azel had six sons, and these are their names: Azrikam, Bocheru, Ishmael, Sheariah, Obadiah, and Hanan. All these were the sons of Azel.
1 Chronicles 8:39 The sons of Eshek his brother: Ulam his firstborn, Jeush the second, and Eliphelet the third.
1 Chronicles 8:40 The sons of Ulam were men who were mighty warriors, bowmen, having many sons and grandsons, 150. All these were Benjaminites.
1 Chronicles 9:1 So all Israel was recorded in genealogies, and these are written in the Book of the Kings of Israel. And Judah was taken into exile in Babylon because of their breach of faith.
1 Chronicles 9:2  temple servants.
1 Chronicles 9:3 And some of the people of Judah, Benjamin, Ephraim, and Manasseh lived in Jerusalem:
1 Chronicles 9:4 Uthai the son of Ammihud, son of Omri, son of Imri, son of Bani, from the sons of Perez the son of Judah.
1 Chronicles 9:5 And of the Shilonites: Asaiah the firstborn, and his sons.
1 Chronicles 9:6 Of the sons of Zerah: Jeuel and their kinsmen, 690.
1 Chronicles 9:7 Of the Benjaminites: Sallu the son of Meshullam, son of Hodaviah, son of Hassenuah,
1 Chronicles 9:8 Ibneiah the son of Jeroham, Elah the son of Uzzi, son of Michri, and Meshullam the son of Shephatiah, son of Reuel, son of Ibnijah;
1 Chronicles 9:9 and their kinsmen according to their generations, to their fathers' houses.
1 Chronicles 9:10  Of the priests: Jedaiah, Jehoiarib, Jachin,
1 Chronicles 9:11 and Azariah the son of Hilkiah, son of Meshullam, son of Zadok, son of Meraioth, son of Ahitub, the chief officer of the house of God;
1 Chronicles 9:12 and Adaiah the son of Jeroham, son of Pashhur, son of Malchijah, and Maasai the son of Adiel, son of Jahzerah, son of Meshullam, son of Meshillemith, son of Immer;
1 Chronicles 9:13 besides their kinsmen, heads of their fathers' houses, 1,760, mighty men for the work of the service of the house of God.
1 Chronicles 9:14  Of the Levites: Shemaiah the son of Hasshub, son of Azrikam, son of Hashabiah, of the sons of Merari;
1 Chronicles 9:15 and Bakbakkar, Heresh, Galal and Mattaniah the son of Mica, son of Zichri, son of Asaph;
1 Chronicles 9:16 and Obadiah the son of Shemaiah, son of Galal, son of Jeduthun, and Berechiah the son of Asa, son of Elkanah, who lived in the villages of the Netophathites.
1 Chronicles 9:17 The gatekeepers were Shallum, Akkub, Talmon, Ahiman, and their kinsmen (Shallum was the chief);
1 Chronicles 9:18 until then they were in the king's gate on the east side as the gatekeepers of the camps of the Levites.
1 Chronicles 9:19 Shallum the son of Kore, son of Korahites, were in charge of the work of the service, keepers of the thresholds of the tent, as their fathers had been in charge of the camp of the LORD, keepers of the entrance.
1 Chronicles 9:20 And Phinehas the son of Eleazar was the chief officer over them in time past; the LORD was with him.
1 Chronicles 9:21  Zechariah the son of Meshelemiah was gatekeeper at the entrance of the tent of meeting.
1 Chronicles 9:22 All these, who were chosen as gatekeepers at the thresholds, were 212. They were enrolled by genealogies in their villages. the seer established them in their office of trust.
1 Chronicles 9:23 So they and their sons were in charge of the gates of the house of the LORD, that is, the house of the tent, as guards.
1 Chronicles 9:24 The gatekeepers were on the four sides, east, west, north, and south.
1 Chronicles 9:25 And their kinsmen who were in every seven days, in turn, to be with these,
1 Chronicles 9:26 for the four chief gatekeepers, who were Levites, were entrusted to be over the chambers and the treasures of the house of God.
1 Chronicles 9:27 And they lodged around the house of God, for on them lay the duty of watching, and they had charge of opening it every morning.
1 Chronicles 9:28 Some of them had charge of the utensils of service, for they were required to count them when they were brought in and taken out.
1 Chronicles 9:29 Others of them were appointed over the furniture and over all the holy utensils, also over the fine flour, the wine, the oil, the incense, and the spices.
1 Chronicles 9:30 Others, of the sons of the priests, prepared the mixing of the spices,
1 Chronicles 9:31 and Mattithiah, one of the Levites, the firstborn of making the flat cakes.
1 Chronicles 9:32 Also some of their kinsmen of the Kohathites had charge of the showbread, to prepare it every Sabbath.
1 Chronicles 9:33 Now these, the singers, the heads of fathers' houses of the Levites, were in the chambers of the temple free from other service, for they were on duty day and night.
1 Chronicles 9:34 These were heads of fathers' houses of the Levites, according to their generations, leaders. These lived in Jerusalem.
1 Chronicles 9:35  In Gibeon lived the father of Gibeon, Jeiel, and the name of his wife was Maacah,
1 Chronicles 9:36 and his firstborn son Abdon, then Zur, Kish, Baal, Ner, Nadab,
1 Chronicles 9:37 Gedor, Ahio, Zechariah, and Mikloth;
1 Chronicles 9:38 and Mikloth was the father of Shimeam; and these also lived opposite their kinsmen in Jerusalem, with their kinsmen.
1 Chronicles 9:39  Ner fathered Kish, Kish fathered Saul, Saul fathered Jonathan, Malchi-shua, Abinadab, and Eshbaal.
1 Chronicles 9:40 And the son of Jonathan was Merib-baal, and Merib-baal fathered Micah.
1 Chronicles 9:41 The sons of Micah: Pithon, Melech, Tahrea, and
1 Chronicles 9:42 And Ahaz fathered Jarah, and Jarah fathered Alemeth, Azmaveth, and Zimri. And Zimri fathered Moza.
1 Chronicles 9:43 Moza fathered Binea, and Rephaiah was his son, Eleasah his son, Azel his son.
1 Chronicles 9:44 Azel had six sons and these are their names: Azrikam, Bocheru, Ishmael, Sheariah, Obadiah, and Hanan; these were the sons of Azel.
1 Chronicles 10:1  Now the Philistines fought against Israel, and the men of Israel fled before the Philistines and fell slain on Mount Gilboa.
1 Chronicles 10:2 And the Philistines overtook Saul and his sons, and the Philistines struck down Jonathan and Abinadab and Malchi-shua, the sons of Saul.
1 Chronicles 10:3 The battle pressed hard against Saul, and the archers found him, and he was wounded by the archers.
1 Chronicles 10:4 Then Saul said to his armor-bearer, “Draw your sword and thrust me through with it, lest these uncircumcised come and mistreat me.” But his armor-bearer would not, for he feared greatly. Therefore Saul took his own sword and fell upon it.
1 Chronicles 10:5 And when his armor-bearer saw that Saul was dead, he also fell upon his sword and died.
1 Chronicles 10:6 Thus Saul died; he and his three sons and all his house died together.
1 Chronicles 10:7 And when all the men of Israel who were in the valley saw that the army  had fled and that Saul and his sons were dead, they abandoned their cities and fled, and the Philistines came and lived in them.
1 Chronicles 10:8 The next day, when the Philistines came to strip the slain, they found Saul and his sons fallen on Mount Gilboa.
1 Chronicles 10:9 And they stripped him and took his head and his armor, and sent messengers throughout the land of the Philistines to carry the good news to their idols and to the people.
1 Chronicles 10:10 And they put his armor in the temple of their gods and fastened his head in the temple of Dagon.
1 Chronicles 10:11 But when all Jabesh-gilead heard all that the Philistines had done to Saul,
1 Chronicles 10:12 all the valiant men arose and took away the body of Saul and the bodies of his sons, and brought them to Jabesh. And they buried their bones under the oak in Jabesh and fasted seven days.
1 Chronicles 10:13 So Saul died consulted a medium, seeking guidance.
1 Chronicles 10:14 He turned the kingdom over to David the son of Jesse.
1 Chronicles 11:1  Then all Israel gathered together to David at Hebron and said, “Behold, we are your bone and flesh.
1 Chronicles 11:2 In times past, even when Saul was king, it was you who led out and brought in Israel. And the LORD your God said to you, ‘You shall be shepherd of my people Israel, and you shall be prince over my people Israel.’”
1 Chronicles 11:3 So all the elders of Israel came to the king at Hebron, and David made a covenant with them at Hebron before the LORD. And they anointed David king over Israel, according to the word of the LORD by Samuel.
1 Chronicles 11:4 And David and all Israel went to Jerusalem, the inhabitants of the land.
1 Chronicles 11:5 The inhabitants of Jebus said to David, “You will not come in here.” Nevertheless, David took the stronghold of Zion, that is, the city of David.
1 Chronicles 11:6 David said, “Whoever strikes the Jebusites first shall be chief and commander.” And Joab the son of Zeruiah went up first, so he became chief.
1 Chronicles 11:7 And David lived in the stronghold; therefore it was called the city of David.
1 Chronicles 11:8 And he built the city all around from the Millo in complete circuit, and Joab repaired the rest of the city.
1 Chronicles 11:9 And David became greater and greater, for the LORD of hosts was with him.
1 Chronicles 11:10  according to the word of the LORD concerning Israel.
1 Chronicles 11:11 This is an account of David's mighty men:  He wielded his spear against 300 whom he killed at one time.
1 Chronicles 11:12 And next to him among the three mighty men was Eleazar the son of Dodo, the Ahohite.
1 Chronicles 11:13 He was with David at Pas-dammim when the Philistines were gathered there for battle. There was a plot of ground full of barley, and the men fled from the Philistines.
1 Chronicles 11:14 But he took his  stand in the midst of the plot and defended it and killed the Philistines. And the LORD saved them by a great victory.
1 Chronicles 11:15 Three of the thirty chief men went down to the rock to David at the cave of Adullam, when the army of Philistines was encamped in the Valley of Rephaim.
1 Chronicles 11:16 David was then in the stronghold, and the garrison of the Philistines was then at Bethlehem.
1 Chronicles 11:17 And David said longingly, “Oh that someone would give me water to drink from the well of Bethlehem that is by the gate!”
1 Chronicles 11:18 Then the three mighty men broke through the camp of the Philistines and drew water out of the well of Bethlehem that was by the gate and took it and brought it to David. But David would not drink it. He poured it out to the LORD
1 Chronicles 11:19 and said, “Far be it from me before my God that I should do this. Shall I drink the lifeblood of these men? For at the risk of their lives they brought it.” Therefore he would not drink it. These things did the three mighty men.
1 Chronicles 11:20 Now Abishai, the brother of Joab, was chief of the thirty.  And he wielded his spear against 300 men and killed them and won a name beside the three.
1 Chronicles 11:21 He was the most renowned  and became their commander, but he did not attain to the three.
1 Chronicles 11:22 And Benaiah the son of Jehoiada was a valiant man  of Kabzeel, a doer of great deeds. He struck down two heroes of Moab. He also went down and struck down a lion in a pit on a day when snow had fallen.
1 Chronicles 11:23 And he struck down an Egyptian, a man of great stature, five cubits like a weaver's beam, but Benaiah went down to him with a staff and snatched the spear out of the Egyptian's hand and killed him with his own spear.
1 Chronicles 11:24 These things did Benaiah the son of Jehoiada and won a name beside the three mighty men.
1 Chronicles 11:25 He was renowned among the thirty, but he did not attain to the three. And David set him over his bodyguard.
1 Chronicles 11:26 The mighty men were Asahel the brother of Joab, Elhanan the son of Dodo of Bethlehem,
1 Chronicles 11:27 Shammoth of Harod,  Helez the Pelonite,
1 Chronicles 11:28 Ira the son of Ikkesh of Tekoa, Abiezer of Anathoth,
1 Chronicles 11:29 Sibbecai the Hushathite, Ilai the Ahohite,
1 Chronicles 11:30 Maharai of Netophah, Heled the son of Baanah of Netophah,
1 Chronicles 11:31 Ithai the son of Ribai of Gibeah of the people of Benjamin, Benaiah of Pirathon,
1 Chronicles 11:32 Hurai of the brooks of Gaash, Abiel the Arbathite,
1 Chronicles 11:33 Azmaveth of Baharum, Eliahba the Shaalbonite,
1 Chronicles 11:34 Hashem  the Gizonite, Jonathan the son of Shagee the Hararite,
1 Chronicles 11:35 Ahiam the son of Sachar the Hararite, Eliphal the son of Ur,
1 Chronicles 11:36 Hepher the Mecherathite, Ahijah the Pelonite,
1 Chronicles 11:37 Hezro of Carmel, Naarai the son of Ezbai,
1 Chronicles 11:38 Joel the brother of Nathan, Mibhar the son of Hagri,
1 Chronicles 11:39 Zelek the Ammonite, Naharai of Beeroth, the armor-bearer of Joab the son of Zeruiah,
1 Chronicles 11:40 Ira the Ithrite, Gareb the Ithrite,
1 Chronicles 11:41 Uriah the Hittite, Zabad the son of Ahlai,
1 Chronicles 11:42 Adina the son of Shiza the Reubenite, a leader of the Reubenites, and thirty with him,
1 Chronicles 11:43 Hanan the son of Maacah, and Joshaphat the Mithnite,
1 Chronicles 11:44 Uzzia the Ashterathite, Shama and Jeiel the sons of Hotham the Aroerite,
1 Chronicles 11:45 Jediael the son of Shimri, and Joha his brother, the Tizite,
1 Chronicles 11:46 Eliel the Mahavite, and Jeribai, and Joshaviah, the sons of Elnaam, and Ithmah the Moabite,
1 Chronicles 11:47 Eliel, and Obed, and Jaasiel the Mezobaite.
1 Chronicles 12:1  Now these are the men who came to David at Ziklag, while he could not move about freely because of Saul the son of Kish. And they were among the mighty men who helped him in war.
1 Chronicles 12:2 They Saul's kinsmen.
1 Chronicles 12:3 The chief was Ahiezer, then Joash, both sons of Shemaah of Anathoth,
1 Chronicles 12:4 Ishmaiah of  Jahaziel, Johanan, Jozabad of Gederah,
1 Chronicles 12:5 Eluzai,  Jerimoth, Bealiah, Shemariah, Shephatiah the Haruphite;
1 Chronicles 12:6 Elkanah, Isshiah, Azarel, Joezer, and Jashobeam, the Korahites;
1 Chronicles 12:7 And Joelah and Zebadiah, the sons of Jeroham of Gedor.
1 Chronicles 12:8 From the Gadites there went over to David at the stronghold in the wilderness mighty and experienced warriors, expert with shield and spear, whose faces were like the faces of lions and who were swift as gazelles upon the mountains:
1 Chronicles 12:9 Ezer the chief, Obadiah second, Eliab third,
1 Chronicles 12:10 Mishmannah fourth, Jeremiah fifth,
1 Chronicles 12:11 Attai sixth, Eliel seventh,
1 Chronicles 12:12 Johanan eighth, Elzabad ninth,
1 Chronicles 12:13 Jeremiah tenth, Machbannai eleventh.
1 Chronicles 12:14 These Gadites were officers of the army; the least was a match for a hundred men and the greatest for a thousand.
1 Chronicles 12:15 These are the men who crossed the Jordan in the first month, when it was overflowing all its banks, and put to flight all those in the valleys, to the east and to the west.
1 Chronicles 12:16 And some of the men of Benjamin and Judah came to the stronghold to David.
1 Chronicles 12:17 David went out to meet them and said to them, “If you have come to me in friendship to help me, my heart will be joined to you; but if to betray me to my adversaries, although there is no wrong in my hands, then may the God of our fathers see and rebuke you.”
1 Chronicles 12:18 ThenPeace, peace to you, and peace to your helpers! For your God helps you.”  Then David received them and made them officers of his troops.
1 Chronicles 12:19 Some of the men of Manasseh deserted to David “At peril to our heads he will desert to his master Saul.”)
1 Chronicles 12:20 As he went to Ziklag, these men of Manasseh deserted to him: Adnah, Jozabad, Jediael, Michael, Jozabad, Elihu, and Zillethai, chiefs of thousands in Manasseh.
1 Chronicles 12:21 They helped David against the band of raiders, for they were all mighty men of valor and were commanders in the army.
1 Chronicles 12:22 For from day to day men came to David to help him, until there was a great army, like an army of God.
1 Chronicles 12:23 These are the numbers of the divisions of the armed troops according to the word of the LORD.
1 Chronicles 12:24 The men of Judah bearing shield and spear were 6,800 armed troops.
1 Chronicles 12:25 Of the Simeonites, mighty men of valor for war, 7,100.
1 Chronicles 12:26 Of the Levites 4,600.
1 Chronicles 12:27 The prince Jehoiada, of the house of Aaron, and with him 3,700.
1 Chronicles 12:28  Zadok, a young man mighty in valor, and twenty-two commanders from his own fathers' house.
1 Chronicles 12:29 Of the Benjaminites, majority had to that point kept their allegiance to the house of Saul.
1 Chronicles 12:30 Of the Ephraimites 20,800, mighty men of valor, famous men in their fathers' houses.
1 Chronicles 12:31 Of the half-tribe of Manasseh 18,000, who were expressly named to come and make David king.
1 Chronicles 12:32 Of Issachar, men who had understanding of the times, to know what Israel ought to do, 200 chiefs, and all their kinsmen under their command.
1 Chronicles 12:33 Of Zebulun 50,000 seasoned troops, singleness of purpose.
1 Chronicles 12:34 Of Naphtali 1,000 commanders with whom were 37,000 men armed with shield and spear.
1 Chronicles 12:35 Of the Danites 28,600 men equipped for battle.
1 Chronicles 12:36 Of ready for battle.
1 Chronicles 12:37 Of the Reubenites and Gadites and the half-tribe of Manasseh from beyond the Jordan, 120,000 men armed with all the weapons of war.
1 Chronicles 12:38 All these, men of war, arrayed in battle order, came to Hebron with single mind to make David king.
1 Chronicles 12:39 And they were there with David for three days, eating and drinking, for their brothers had made preparation for them.
1 Chronicles 12:40 And also their relatives, from as far as Issachar and Zebulun and Naphtali, came bringing food on donkeys and on camels and on mules and on oxen, abundant provisions of flour, cakes of figs, clusters of raisins, and wine and oil, oxen and sheep, for there was joy in Israel.
1 Chronicles 13:1 David consulted with the commanders of thousands and of hundreds, with every leader.
1 Chronicles 13:2 And David said to all the assembly of Israel, “If it seems good to you and from the LORD our God, let us send abroad to our brothers who remain in all the lands of Israel, as well as to the priests and Levites in the cities that have pasturelands, that they may be gathered to us.
1 Chronicles 13:3 Then let us bring again the ark of our God to us,  in the days of Saul.”
1 Chronicles 13:4 All the assembly agreed to do so, for the thing was right in the eyes of all the people.
1 Chronicles 13:5  from Kiriath-jearim.
1 Chronicles 13:6  sits enthroned above the cherubim.
1 Chronicles 13:7 And they carried the ark of God on a new cart, from the house of  were driving the cart.
1 Chronicles 13:8 And David and all Israel were celebrating before God with all their might, with song and lyres and harps and tambourines and cymbals and trumpets.
1 Chronicles 13:9 And when they came to the threshing floor of Chidon, Uzzah put out his hand to take hold of the ark, for the oxen stumbled.
1 Chronicles 13:10 And the anger of the LORD was kindled against Uzzah, and he struck him down he died there before God.
1 Chronicles 13:11 And David was angry because the LORD had broken out against Uzzah. And that place is called Perez-uzza  to this day.
1 Chronicles 13:12 And David was afraid of God that day, and he said, “How can I bring the ark of God home to me?”
1 Chronicles 13:13 So David did not take the ark home into the city of David, but took it aside to the house of Obed-edom the Gittite.
1 Chronicles 13:14 And the ark of God remained with the household of Obed-edom in his house three months. And the LORD blessed the household of Obed-edom and all that he had.
1 Chronicles 14:1  And Hiram king of Tyre sent messengers to David, and cedar trees, also masons and carpenters to build a house for him.
1 Chronicles 14:2 And David knew that the LORD had established him as king over Israel, and that his kingdom was highly exalted for the sake of his people Israel.
1 Chronicles 14:3 And David took more wives in Jerusalem, and David fathered more sons and daughters.
1 Chronicles 14:4  Shammua, Shobab, Nathan, Solomon,
1 Chronicles 14:5 Ibhar, Elishua, Elpelet,
1 Chronicles 14:6 Nogah, Nepheg, Japhia,
1 Chronicles 14:7 Elishama, Eliphelet.
1 Chronicles 14:8 When the Philistines heard that David had been anointed king over all Israel, all the Philistines went up to search for David. But David heard of it and went out against them.
1 Chronicles 14:9 Now the Philistines had come and Valley of Rephaim.
1 Chronicles 14:10 And David inquired of God, “Shall I go up against the Philistines? Will you give them into my hand?” And the LORD said to him, “Go up, and I will give them into your hand.”
1 Chronicles 14:11 And he went up to Baal-perazim, and David struck them down there. And David said, “God has broken through  my enemies by my hand, like a bursting flood.” Therefore the name of that place is called Baal-perazim.
1 Chronicles 14:12 And they left their gods there, and David gave command, and they were burned.
1 Chronicles 14:13 And the Philistines yet again made a raid in the valley.
1 Chronicles 14:14 And when David again inquired of God, God said to him, “You shall not go up after them; go around and come against them opposite the balsam trees.
1 Chronicles 14:15 And when you hear the sound of marching in the tops of the balsam trees, then go out to battle, for God has gone out before you to strike down the army of the Philistines.”
1 Chronicles 14:16 And David did as God commanded him, and they struck down the Philistine army from Gibeon to Gezer.
1 Chronicles 14:17 And the fame of David went out into all lands, and the LORD brought the fear of him upon all nations.
1 Chronicles 15:1 David pitched a tent for it.
1 Chronicles 15:2 Then David said that no one but the Levites may carry the ark of God, for the LORD had chosen them to carry the ark of the LORD and to minister to him forever.
1 Chronicles 15:3  to its place, which he had prepared for it.
1 Chronicles 15:4 And David gathered together the sons of Aaron and the Levites:
1 Chronicles 15:5 of the sons of Kohath, Uriel the chief, with 120 of his brothers;
1 Chronicles 15:6 of the sons of Merari, Asaiah the chief, with 220 of his brothers;
1 Chronicles 15:7 of the sons of Gershom, Joel the chief, with 130 of his brothers;
1 Chronicles 15:8 of the sons of Elizaphan, Shemaiah the chief, with 200 of his brothers;
1 Chronicles 15:9 of the sons of Hebron, Eliel the chief, with 80 of his brothers;
1 Chronicles 15:10 of the sons of Uzziel, Amminadab the chief, with 112 of his brothers.
1 Chronicles 15:11 Then David summoned the priests Abiathar, and the Levites Uriel, Asaiah, Joel, Shemaiah, Eliel, and Amminadab,
1 Chronicles 15:12 and said to them, “You are the heads of the fathers' houses of the Levites. to the place that I have prepared for it.
1 Chronicles 15:13  Because you did not carry it the first time, the LORD our God broke out against us, because we did not seek him according to the rule.”
1 Chronicles 15:14 So the priests and the Levites consecrated themselves to bring up the ark of the LORD, the God of Israel.
1 Chronicles 15:15 And the Levites carried the ark of God on their shoulders as Moses had commanded according to the word of the LORD.
1 Chronicles 15:16 David also commanded the chiefs of the Levites to appoint their brothers as the singers who should play loudly on musical instruments, on harps and lyres and cymbals, to raise sounds of joy.
1 Chronicles 15:17 So the Levites appointed Ethan the son of Kushaiah;
1 Chronicles 15:18 and with them their brothers of the second order, Zechariah, Jaaziel, Shemiramoth, Jehiel, Unni, Eliab, Benaiah, Maaseiah, Mattithiah, Eliphelehu, and Mikneiah, and the gatekeepers Obed-edom and Jeiel.
1 Chronicles 15:19 The singers, Heman, Asaph, and Ethan, were to sound bronze cymbals;
1 Chronicles 15:20 Zechariah, Alamoth;
1 Chronicles 15:21 but Mattithiah, Eliphelehu, Mikneiah, the Sheminith.
1 Chronicles 15:22 Chenaniah, leader of the Levites in music, should direct the music, for he understood it.
1 Chronicles 15:23 Berechiah and Elkanah were to be gatekeepers for the ark.
1 Chronicles 15:24 Shebaniah, Joshaphat, Nethanel, Amasai, Zechariah, Benaiah, and Eliezer, the priests, should Obed-edom and Jehiah were to be gatekeepers for the ark.
1 Chronicles 15:25  Obed-edom with rejoicing.
1 Chronicles 15:26 And because God helped the Levites who were carrying the ark of the covenant of the LORD, they sacrificed seven bulls and seven rams.
1 Chronicles 15:27 David was clothed with a robe of fine linen, as also were all the Levites who were carrying the ark, and the singers and Chenaniah the leader of the music of the singers. And David wore a linen ephod.
1 Chronicles 15:28 So all Israel brought up the ark of the covenant of the LORD with shouting, to the sound of the horn, harps and lyres.
1 Chronicles 15:29 And as the ark of the covenant of the LORD came to the city of David, Michal the daughter of Saul looked out of the window and saw King David dancing and celebrating, and she despised him in her heart.
1 Chronicles 16:1 And they brought in the ark of God and set it inside the tent that David had pitched for it, and they offered burnt offerings and peace offerings before God.
1 Chronicles 16:2 And when David had finished offering the burnt offerings and the peace offerings, he blessed the people in the name of the LORD
1 Chronicles 16:3 and distributed to all Israel, both men and women, to each a loaf of bread, a portion of meat,  and a cake of raisins.
1 Chronicles 16:4 Then he appointed some of the Levites as ministers before the ark of the LORD, to invoke, to thank, and to praise the LORD, the God of Israel.
1 Chronicles 16:5  Asaph was the chief, and second to him were Zechariah, Jeiel, Shemiramoth, Jehiel, Mattithiah, Eliab, Benaiah, Obed-edom, and Jeiel, who were to play harps and lyres; Asaph was to sound the cymbals,
1 Chronicles 16:6 and Benaiah and Jahaziel the priests were to blow trumpets regularly before the ark of the covenant of God.
1 Chronicles 16:7 Then on that day David first appointed that thanksgiving be sung to the LORD by Asaph and his brothers.
1 Chronicles 16:8 make known his deeds among the peoples!
1 Chronicles 16:9 Sing to him, sing praises to him; tell of all his wondrous works!
1 Chronicles 16:10 Glory in his holy name; let the hearts of those who seek the LORD rejoice!
1 Chronicles 16:11  Seek the LORD and his strength; seek his presence continually!
1 Chronicles 16:12 his miracles and the judgments he uttered,
1 Chronicles 16:13 O offspring of Israel his servant, children of Jacob, his chosen ones!
1 Chronicles 16:14 He is the LORD our God; his judgments are in all the earth.
1 Chronicles 16:15 Remember his covenant forever, the word that he commanded, for a thousand generations,
1 Chronicles 16:16 the covenant that he made with Abraham, his sworn promise to Isaac,
1 Chronicles 16:17 which he confirmed to Jacob as a statute, to Israel as an everlasting covenant,
1 Chronicles 16:18 saying, “To you I will give the land of Canaan, as your portion for an inheritance.”
1 Chronicles 16:19 When you were sojourners in it,
1 Chronicles 16:20 wandering from nation to nation, from one kingdom to another people,
1 Chronicles 16:21 he allowed no one to oppress them; he rebuked kings on their account,
1 Chronicles 16:22 saying, “Touch not my anointed ones, do my prophets no harm!”
1 Chronicles 16:23  Sing to the LORD, all the earth! Tell of his salvation from day to day.
1 Chronicles 16:24 Declare his glory among the nations, his marvelous works among all the peoples!
1 Chronicles 16:25 For above all gods.
1 Chronicles 16:26 For all the gods of the peoples are worthless idols, but the LORD made the heavens.
1 Chronicles 16:27 Splendor and majesty are before him; strength and joy are in his place.
1 Chronicles 16:28 Ascribe to the LORD, O families of the peoples, ascribe to the LORD glory and strength!
1 Chronicles 16:29 Ascribe to the LORD the glory due his name; bring an offering and come before him!
1 Chronicles 16:30 tremble before him, all the earth; yes, the world is established; it shall never be moved.
1 Chronicles 16:31  “The LORD reigns!”
1 Chronicles 16:32  Let the sea roar, and all that fills it; let the field exult, and everything in it!
1 Chronicles 16:33 Then shall the trees of the forest sing for joy before the LORD, for he comes to judge the earth.
1 Chronicles 16:34 Oh give thanks to the LORD, for he is good; for his steadfast love endures forever!
1 Chronicles 16:35  Say also: “Save us, O God of our salvation, and gather and deliver us from among the nations, that we may give thanks to your holy name and glory in your praise.
1 Chronicles 16:36 Then all the people said, “Amen!” and praised the LORD.
1 Chronicles 16:37 So David left Asaph and his brothers there as each day required,
1 Chronicles 16:38 and also Hosah were to be gatekeepers.
1 Chronicles 16:39 And he left in the high place that was at Gibeon
1 Chronicles 16:40 to offer burnt offerings to the LORD regularly morning and evening, to do all that is written in the Law of the LORD that he commanded Israel.
1 Chronicles 16:41 With them were for his steadfast love endures forever.
1 Chronicles 16:42 Heman and Jeduthun had trumpets and cymbals for the music and instruments for sacred song. The sons of Jeduthun were appointed to the gate.
1 Chronicles 16:43  Then all the people departed each to his house, and David went home to bless his household.
1 Chronicles 17:1  Now when David lived in his house, David said to Nathan the prophet, “Behold, I dwell in a house of cedar, but the ark of the covenant of the LORD is under a tent.”
1 Chronicles 17:2 And Nathan said to David, “Do all that is in your heart, for God is with you.”
1 Chronicles 17:3 But that same night the word of the LORD came to Nathan,
1 Chronicles 17:4 “Go and tell my servant David, ‘Thus says the LORD: It is not you who will build me a house to dwell in.
1 Chronicles 17:5 For I have not lived in a house since the day I brought up Israel to this day, but I have gone from tent to tent and from dwelling to dwelling.
1 Chronicles 17:6 In all places where I have moved with all Israel, did I speak a word with any of the judges of Israel, whom I commanded to shepherd my people, saying, “Why have you not built me a house of cedar?”’
1 Chronicles 17:7 Now, therefore, thus shall you say to my servant David, ‘Thus says the LORD of hosts, I took you from the pasture, from following the sheep, to be prince over my people Israel,
1 Chronicles 17:8 and I have been with you wherever you have gone and have cut off all your enemies from before you. And I will make for you a name, like the name of the great ones of the earth.
1 Chronicles 17:9 And I will appoint a place for my people Israel and will plant them, that they may dwell in their own place and be disturbed no more. And violent men shall waste them no more, as formerly,
1 Chronicles 17:10 from the time that I appointed judges over my people Israel. And I will subdue all your enemies. Moreover, I declare to you that the LORD will build you a house.
1 Chronicles 17:11 When your days are fulfilled to walk with your fathers, I will raise up your offspring after you, one of your own sons, and I will establish his kingdom.
1 Chronicles 17:12 He shall build a house for me, and I will establish his throne forever.
1 Chronicles 17:13  as I took it from him who was before you,
1 Chronicles 17:14 but I will confirm him in my house and in my kingdom forever, and his throne shall be established forever.’”
1 Chronicles 17:15 In accordance with all these words, and in accordance with all this vision, Nathan spoke to David.
1 Chronicles 17:16 Then King David went in and sat before the LORD and said, “Who am I, O LORD God, and what is my house, that you have brought me thus far?
1 Chronicles 17:17 And this was a small thing in your eyes, O God. You have also spoken of your servant's house for a great while to come, and have shown me future generations,  O LORD God!
1 Chronicles 17:18 And what more can David say to you for honoring your servant? For you know your servant.
1 Chronicles 17:19  For your servant's sake, O LORD, and according to your own heart, you have done all this greatness, in making known all these great things.
1 Chronicles 17:20 There is none like you, O LORD, and there is no God besides you, according to all that we have heard with our ears.
1 Chronicles 17:21 And who is like your people Israel, the one  nation on earth whom God went to redeem to be his people, making for yourself a name for great and awesome things, in driving out nations before your people whom you redeemed from Egypt?
1 Chronicles 17:22 And you made your people Israel to be your people forever, and you, O LORD, became their God.
1 Chronicles 17:23 And now, O LORD, let the word that you have spoken concerning your servant and concerning his house be established forever, and do as you have spoken,
1 Chronicles 17:24 and your name will be established and magnified forever, saying, ‘The LORD of hosts, the God of Israel, is Israel's God,’ and the house of your servant David will be established before you.
1 Chronicles 17:25 For you, my God, have revealed to your servant that you will build a house for him. Therefore your servant has found courage to pray before you.
1 Chronicles 17:26 And now, O LORD, you are God, and you have promised this good thing to your servant.
1 Chronicles 17:27 Now you have been pleased to bless the house of your servant, that it may continue forever before you, for it is you, O LORD, who have blessed, and it is blessed forever.”
1 Chronicles 18:1  After this David defeated the Philistines and subdued them, and he took Gath and its villages out of the hand of the Philistines.
1 Chronicles 18:2 And he defeated Moab, and the Moabites became servants to David and brought tribute.
1 Chronicles 18:3 David also defeated  at the river Euphrates.
1 Chronicles 18:4 And David took from him 1,000 chariots, 7,000 horsemen, and 20,000 foot soldiers. And David hamstrung all the chariot horses, but left enough for 100 chariots.
1 Chronicles 18:5 And when the Syrians of Damascus came to help Hadadezer king of Zobah, David struck down 22,000 men of the Syrians.
1 Chronicles 18:6 Then David put garrisons  wherever he went.
1 Chronicles 18:7 And David took the shields of gold that were carried by the servants of Hadadezer and brought them to Jerusalem.
1 Chronicles 18:8 And from With it Solomon made the bronze sea and the pillars and the vessels of bronze.
1 Chronicles 18:9 When of Zobah,
1 Chronicles 18:10 he sent his son Hadadezer had often been at war with Tou. And he sent all sorts of articles of gold, of silver, and of bronze.
1 Chronicles 18:11 These also King David dedicated to the LORD, together with the silver and gold that he had carried off from all the nations, from Edom, Moab, the Ammonites, the Philistines, and Amalek.
1 Chronicles 18:12 And Abishai, the son of Zeruiah, killed 18,000 Edomites in the Valley of Salt.
1 Chronicles 18:13 Then he put garrisons in Edom, and all the Edomites became David's servants. And the LORD gave victory to David wherever he went.
1 Chronicles 18:14 So David reigned over all Israel, and he administered justice and equity to all his people.
1 Chronicles 18:15 And Joab the son of Zeruiah was over the army; and Jehoshaphat the son of Ahilud was recorder;
1 Chronicles 18:16  Shavsha was secretary;
1 Chronicles 18:17 and Benaiah the son of Jehoiada was over the Cherethites and the Pelethites; and David's sons were the chief officials in the service of the king.
1 Chronicles 19:1  Now after this Nahash the king of the Ammonites died, and his son reigned in his place.
1 Chronicles 19:2 And David said, “I will deal kindly with Hanun the son of Nahash, for his father dealt kindly with me.” So David sent messengers to console him concerning his father. And David's servants came to the land of the Ammonites to Hanun to console him.
1 Chronicles 19:3 But the princes of the Ammonites said to Hanun, “Do you think, because David has sent comforters to you, that he is honoring your father? Have not his servants come to you to search and to overthrow and to spy out the land?”
1 Chronicles 19:4 So Hanun took David's servants and shaved them and cut off their garments in the middle, at their hips, and sent them away;
1 Chronicles 19:5 and they departed. When David was told concerning the men, he sent messengers to meet them, for the men were greatly ashamed. And the king said, “Remain at Jericho until your beards have grown and then return.”
1 Chronicles 19:6 When the Ammonites saw that they had become a stench to David, Hanun and the Ammonites sent 1,000 talents Zobah.
1 Chronicles 19:7 They hired 32,000 chariots and the king of Maacah with his army, who came and encamped before Medeba. And the Ammonites were mustered from their cities and came to battle.
1 Chronicles 19:8 When David heard of it, he sent Joab and all the army of the mighty men.
1 Chronicles 19:9 And the Ammonites came out and drew up in battle array at the entrance of the city, and the kings who had come were by themselves in the open country.
1 Chronicles 19:10 When Joab saw that the battle was set against him both in front and in the rear, he chose some of the best men of Israel and arrayed them against the Syrians.
1 Chronicles 19:11 The rest of his men he put in the charge of Abishai his brother, and they were arrayed against the Ammonites.
1 Chronicles 19:12 And he said, “If the Syrians are too strong for me, then you shall help me, but if the Ammonites are too strong for you, then I will help you.
1 Chronicles 19:13 Be strong, and let us use our strength for our people and for the cities of our God, and may the LORD do what seems good to him.”
1 Chronicles 19:14 So Joab and the people who were with him drew near before the Syrians for battle, and they fled before him.
1 Chronicles 19:15 And when the Ammonites saw that the Syrians fled, they likewise fled before Abishai, Joab's brother, and entered the city. Then Joab came to Jerusalem.
1 Chronicles 19:16 But when the Syrians saw that they had been defeated by Israel, they sent messengers and brought out the Syrians who were beyond the Euphrates, Hadadezer at their head.
1 Chronicles 19:17 And when it was told to David, he gathered all Israel together and crossed the Jordan and came to them and drew up his forces against them. And when David set the battle in array against the Syrians, they fought with him.
1 Chronicles 19:18 And the Syrians fled before Israel, and David killed of the Syrians the men of Shophach the commander of their army.
1 Chronicles 19:19 And when the servants of Hadadezer saw that they had been defeated by Israel, they made peace with David and became subject to him. So the Syrians were not willing to save the Ammonites anymore.
1 Chronicles 20:1  Joab struck down Rabbah and overthrew it.
1 Chronicles 20:2   of gold, and in it was a precious stone. And it was placed on David's head. And he brought out the spoil of the city, a very great amount.
1 Chronicles 20:3 And he brought out the people who were in it and set them to labor  And thus David did to all the cities of the Ammonites. Then David and all the people returned to Jerusalem.
1 Chronicles 20:4  And after this there arose war with the Philistines at Gezer. Then Sibbecai the Hushathite struck down Sippai, who was one of the descendants of the giants, and the Philistines were subdued.
1 Chronicles 20:5 And there was again war with the Philistines, and Elhanan the son of the brother of Goliath the Gittite, the shaft of whose spear was like a weaver's beam.
1 Chronicles 20:6 And there was again war at Gath, where there was a man of great stature, who had six fingers on each hand and six toes on each foot, twenty-four in number, and he also was descended from the giants.
1 Chronicles 20:7 And when he taunted Israel, Jonathan the son of Shimea, David's brother, struck him down.
1 Chronicles 20:8 These were descended from the giants in Gath, and they fell by the hand of David and by the hand of his servants.
1 Chronicles 21:1  Satan stood against Israel and incited David to number Israel.
1 Chronicles 21:2 So David said to Joab and the commanders of the army, “Go, number Israel, from Beersheba to Dan, and bring me a report, that I may know their number.”
1 Chronicles 21:3 But Joab said, “May the LORD add to his people a hundred times as many as they are! Are they not, my lord the king, all of them my lord's servants? Why then should my lord require this? Why should it be a cause of guilt for Israel?”
1 Chronicles 21:4 But the king's word prevailed against Joab. So Joab departed and went throughout all Israel and came back to Jerusalem.
1 Chronicles 21:5 And Joab gave the sum of the numbering of the people to David. In all Israel there were 470,000 who drew the sword.
1 Chronicles 21:6  But he did not include Levi and Benjamin in the numbering, for the king's command was abhorrent to Joab.
1 Chronicles 21:7 But God was displeased with this thing, and he struck Israel.
1 Chronicles 21:8 And David said to God, “I have sinned greatly in that I have done this thing. But now, please take away the iniquity of your servant, for I have acted very foolishly.”
1 Chronicles 21:9 And the LORD spoke to Gad, David's seer, saying,
1 Chronicles 21:10 “Go and say to David, ‘Thus says the LORD, Three things I offer you; choose one of them, that I may do it to you.’”
1 Chronicles 21:11 So Gad came to David and said to him, “Thus says the LORD, ‘Choose what you will:
1 Chronicles 21:12 either three years of famine, or three months of devastation by your foes while the sword of your enemies overtakes you, or else three days of the sword of the LORD, pestilence on the land, with the angel of the LORD destroying throughout all the territory of Israel.’ Now decide what answer I shall return to him who sent me.”
1 Chronicles 21:13 Then David said to Gad, “I am in great distress. Let me fall into the hand of the LORD, for his mercy is very great, but do not let me fall into the hand of man.”
1 Chronicles 21:14 So the LORD sent a pestilence on Israel, and 70,000 men of Israel fell.
1 Chronicles 21:15 And God sent the angel to Jerusalem to destroy it, but as he was about to destroy it, the LORD saw, and he relented from the calamity. And he said to the angel who was working destruction, “It is enough; now stay your hand.” And the angel of the LORD was standing by the threshing floor of Ornan the Jebusite.
1 Chronicles 21:16 And David lifted his eyes and saw the angel of the LORD standing between earth and heaven, and in his hand a drawn sword stretched out over Jerusalem. Then David and the elders, clothed in sackcloth, fell upon their faces.
1 Chronicles 21:17 And David said to God, “Was it not I who gave command to number the people? It is I who have sinned and done great evil. But these sheep, what have they done? Please let your hand, O LORD my God, be against me and against my father's house. But do not let the plague be on your people.”
1 Chronicles 21:18 Now the angel of the LORD had commanded Gad to say to David that David should go up and raise an altar to the LORD on the threshing floor of Ornan the Jebusite.
1 Chronicles 21:19 So David went up at Gad's word, which he had spoken in the name of the LORD.
1 Chronicles 21:20 Now Ornan was threshing wheat. He turned and saw the angel, and his four sons who were with him hid themselves.
1 Chronicles 21:21 As David came to Ornan, Ornan looked and saw David and went out from the threshing floor and paid homage to David with his face to the ground.
1 Chronicles 21:22 And David said to Ornan, “Give me the site of the threshing floor that I may build on it an altar to the LORD — give it to me at its full price — that the plague may be averted from the people.”
1 Chronicles 21:23 Then Ornan said to David, “Take it, and let my lord the king do what seems good to him. See, I give the oxen for burnt offerings and the threshing sledges for the wood and the wheat for a grain offering; I give it all.”
1 Chronicles 21:24 But King David said to Ornan, “No, but I will buy them for the full price. I will not take for the LORD what is yours, nor offer burnt offerings that cost me nothing.”
1 Chronicles 21:25 So David paid Ornan  of gold by weight for the site.
1 Chronicles 21:26 And David built there an altar to the LORD and presented burnt offerings and peace offerings and called on the LORD, and the LORD answered him with fire from heaven upon the altar of burnt offering.
1 Chronicles 21:27 Then the LORD commanded the angel, and he put his sword back into its sheath.
1 Chronicles 21:28 At that time, when David saw that the LORD had answered him at the threshing floor of Ornan the Jebusite, he sacrificed there.
1 Chronicles 21:29 For the tabernacle of the LORD, which Moses had made in the wilderness, and the altar of burnt offering were at that time in the high place at Gibeon,
1 Chronicles 21:30 but David could not go before it to inquire of God, for he was afraid of the sword of the angel of the LORD.
1 Chronicles 22:1 Then David said, “Here shall be the house of the LORD God and here the altar of burnt offering for Israel.”
1 Chronicles 22:2 David commanded to gather together the set stonecutters to prepare dressed stones for building the house of God.
1 Chronicles 22:3 David also provided great quantities of iron for nails for the doors of the gates and for clamps, as well as bronze in quantities beyond weighing,
1 Chronicles 22:4 and cedar timbers without number, for the Sidonians and Tyrians brought great quantities of cedar to David.
1 Chronicles 22:5 For David said, “Solomon my son is young and inexperienced, and the house that is to be built for the LORD must be exceedingly magnificent, of fame and glory throughout all lands. I will therefore make preparation for it.” So David provided materials in great quantity before his death.
1 Chronicles 22:6 Then he called for Solomon his son and charged him to build a house for the LORD, the God of Israel.
1 Chronicles 22:7 David said to Solomon, “My son, I had it in my heart to build a house to the name of the LORD my God.
1 Chronicles 22:8 But the word of the LORD came to me, saying, ‘You have shed much blood and have waged great wars. You shall not build a house to my name, because you have shed so much blood before me on the earth.
1 Chronicles 22:9 Behold, a son shall be born to you who shall be a man of rest. For his name shall be Solomon, and I will give peace and quiet to Israel in his days.
1 Chronicles 22:10  He shall be my son, and I will be his father, and I will establish his royal throne in Israel forever.’
1 Chronicles 22:11 “Now, my son, the LORD be with you, so that you may succeed in building the house of the LORD your God, as he has spoken concerning you.
1 Chronicles 22:12  Only, may the LORD grant you discretion and understanding, that when he gives you charge over Israel you may keep the law of the LORD your God.
1 Chronicles 22:13  Be strong and courageous. Fear not; do not be dismayed.
1 Chronicles 22:14 With great pains I have provided for the house of the LORD bronze and iron beyond weighing, for there is so much of it; timber and stone, too, I have provided. To these you must add.
1 Chronicles 22:15 You have an abundance of workmen: stonecutters, masons, carpenters, and all kinds of craftsmen without number, skilled in working
1 Chronicles 22:16 gold, silver, bronze, and iron. Arise and work! The LORD be with you!”
1 Chronicles 22:17 David also commanded all the leaders of Israel to help Solomon his son, saying,
1 Chronicles 22:18 “Is not the LORD your God with you? And  on every side? For he has delivered the inhabitants of the land into my hand, and the land is subdued before the LORD and his people.
1 Chronicles 22:19 Now for the name of the LORD.”
1 Chronicles 23:1  he made Solomon his son king over Israel.
1 Chronicles 23:2 David  assembled all the leaders of Israel and the priests and the Levites.
1 Chronicles 23:3 The Levites, 38,000 men.
1 Chronicles 23:4 “Twenty-four thousand of these,” David said, officers and judges,
1 Chronicles 23:5 4,000 gatekeepers, and 4,000 shall offer praises to the LORD with the instruments that I have made for praise.”
1 Chronicles 23:6  corresponding to the sons of Levi: Gershon, Kohath, and Merari.
1 Chronicles 23:7   were Ladan and Shimei.
1 Chronicles 23:8 The sons of Ladan: Jehiel the chief, and Zetham, and Joel, three.
1 Chronicles 23:9 The sons of Shimei: Shelomoth, Haziel, and Haran, three. These were the heads of the fathers' houses of Ladan.
1 Chronicles 23:10 And the sons of Shimei: Jahath, Zina, and Jeush and Beriah. These four were the sons of Shimei.
1 Chronicles 23:11 Jahath was the chief, and Zizah the second; but Jeush and Beriah did not have many sons, therefore they became counted as a single father's house.
1 Chronicles 23:12  The sons of Kohath: Amram, Izhar, Hebron, and Uzziel, four.
1 Chronicles 23:13  pronounce blessings in his name forever.
1 Chronicles 23:14 But the sons of Moses the tribe of Levi.
1 Chronicles 23:15 The sons of Moses: Gershom and Eliezer.
1 Chronicles 23:16 The sons of Gershom: Shebuel the chief.
1 Chronicles 23:17 The sons of Eliezer: Rehabiah the chief. Eliezer had no other sons, but the sons of Rehabiah were very many.
1 Chronicles 23:18 The sons of Izhar: Shelomith the chief.
1 Chronicles 23:19 The sons of Hebron: Jeriah the chief, Amariah the second, Jahaziel the third, and Jekameam the fourth.
1 Chronicles 23:20  The sons of Uzziel: Micah the chief and Isshiah the second.
1 Chronicles 23:21  Kish.
1 Chronicles 23:22 Eleazar died kinsmen, the sons of Kish, married them.
1 Chronicles 23:23  The sons of Mushi: Mahli, Eder, and Jeremoth, three.
1 Chronicles 23:24  twenty years old and upward who were to do the work for the service of the house of the LORD.
1 Chronicles 23:25 For David said, “The LORD, the God of Israel, has given rest to his people, and he dwells in Jerusalem forever.
1 Chronicles 23:26 And so the Levites no longer need to carry the tabernacle or any of the things for its service.”
1 Chronicles 23:27 For by the last words of David the sons of Levi were numbered from twenty years old and upward.
1 Chronicles 23:28 For their duty was to assist the sons of Aaron for the service of the house of the LORD, having the care of the courts and the chambers, the cleansing of all that is holy, and any work for the service of the house of God.
1 Chronicles 23:29 Their duty was also to assist with the measures of quantity or size.
1 Chronicles 23:30 And they were to stand every morning, thanking and praising the LORD, and likewise at evening,
1 Chronicles 23:31 and whenever burnt offerings were offered to the LORD according to the number required of them, regularly before the LORD.
1 Chronicles 23:32 Thus service of the house of the LORD.
1 Chronicles 24:1 The divisions of the sons of Aaron were these. The sons of Aaron: Nadab, Abihu, Eleazar, and Ithamar.
1 Chronicles 24:2  But Nadab and Abihu died before their father and had no children, so Eleazar and Ithamar became the priests.
1 Chronicles 24:3 With the help of Zadok of the sons of Eleazar, and Ahimelech of the sons of Ithamar, David organized them according to the appointed duties in their service.
1 Chronicles 24:4 Since more chief men were found among the sons of Eleazar than among the sons of Ithamar, they organized them under sixteen heads of fathers' houses of the sons of Eleazar, and eight of the sons of Ithamar.
1 Chronicles 24:5 They divided them by lot, all alike, for there were sacred officers and officers of God among both the sons of Eleazar and the sons of Ithamar.
1 Chronicles 24:6 And the scribe Shemaiah, the son of Nethanel, a Levite, recorded them in the presence of the king and the princes and Zadok the priest and Ahimelech the son of Abiathar and the heads of the fathers' houses of the priests and of the Levites, one father's house being chosen for Eleazar and one chosen for Ithamar.
1 Chronicles 24:7 The first lot fell to Jehoiarib, the second to Jedaiah,
1 Chronicles 24:8 the third to Harim, the fourth to Seorim,
1 Chronicles 24:9 the fifth to Malchijah, the sixth to Mijamin,
1 Chronicles 24:10 the seventh to Hakkoz, the eighth to Abijah,
1 Chronicles 24:11 the ninth to Jeshua, the tenth to Shecaniah,
1 Chronicles 24:12 the eleventh to Eliashib, the twelfth to Jakim,
1 Chronicles 24:13 the thirteenth to Huppah, the fourteenth to Jeshebeab,
1 Chronicles 24:14 the fifteenth to Bilgah, the sixteenth to Immer,
1 Chronicles 24:15 the seventeenth to Hezir, the eighteenth to Happizzez,
1 Chronicles 24:16 the nineteenth to Pethahiah, the twentieth to Jehezkel,
1 Chronicles 24:17 the twenty-first to Jachin, the twenty-second to Gamul,
1 Chronicles 24:18 the twenty-third to Delaiah, the twenty-fourth to Maaziah.
1 Chronicles 24:19 These had as their appointed duty in their service to come into the house of the LORD according to the procedure established for them by Aaron their father, as the LORD God of Israel had commanded him.
1 Chronicles 24:20 And of the rest of the sons of Levi: of the sons of Amram, Shubael; of the sons of Shubael, Jehdeiah.
1 Chronicles 24:21  Of Rehabiah: of the sons of Rehabiah, Isshiah the chief.
1 Chronicles 24:22 Of the Izharites, Shelomoth; of the sons of Shelomoth, Jahath.
1 Chronicles 24:23   Amariah the second, Jahaziel the third, Jekameam the fourth.
1 Chronicles 24:24  The sons of Uzziel, Micah; of the sons of Micah, Shamir.
1 Chronicles 24:25 The brother of Micah, Isshiah; of the sons of Isshiah, Zechariah.
1 Chronicles 24:26
1 Chronicles 24:27 The sons of Merari: of Jaaziah, Beno, Shoham, Zaccur, and Ibri.
1 Chronicles 24:28 Of Mahli: Eleazar, who had no sons.
1 Chronicles 24:29 Of Kish, the sons of Kish: Jerahmeel.
1 Chronicles 24:30  The sons of Mushi: Mahli, Eder, and Jerimoth. These were the sons of the Levites according to their fathers' houses.
1 Chronicles 24:31 These also, the head of each father's house and his younger brother alike, Zadok, Ahimelech, and the heads of fathers' houses of the priests and of the Levites.
1 Chronicles 25:1 David and the chiefs of the service also set apart for the service the sons of harps, and with cymbals. The list of those who did the work and of their duties was:
1 Chronicles 25:2 Of the sons of Asaph: Zaccur, Joseph, Nethaniah, and Asharelah, sons of Asaph, under the direction of Asaph, who prophesied under the direction of the king.
1 Chronicles 25:3 Of Jeduthun, the sons of Jeduthun: Gedaliah, Zeri, Jeshaiah, Shimei, who prophesied with the lyre in thanksgiving and praise to the LORD.
1 Chronicles 25:4 Of Heman, the sons of Heman: Bukkiah, Mattaniah, Uzziel, Shebuel and Jerimoth, Hananiah, Hanani, Eliathah, Giddalti, and Romamti-ezer, Joshbekashah, Mallothi, Hothir, Mahazioth.
1 Chronicles 25:5 All these were the sons of Heman the king's seer, according to the promise of God to exalt him, for God had given Heman fourteen sons and three daughters.
1 Chronicles 25:6 They were all under the direction of their father in the music in the house of the LORD with cymbals, harps, and lyres for the service of the house of God. Asaph, Jeduthun, and Heman were under the order of the king.
1 Chronicles 25:7 The number of them along with their brothers, who were trained in singing to the LORD, all who were skillful, was 288.
1 Chronicles 25:8 And they cast lots for their duties, small and great, teacher and pupil alike.
1 Chronicles 25:9 The first lot fell for Asaph to Joseph; the second to Gedaliah, to him and his brothers and his sons, twelve;
1 Chronicles 25:10 the third to Zaccur, his sons and his brothers, twelve;
1 Chronicles 25:11 the fourth to Izri, his sons and his brothers, twelve;
1 Chronicles 25:12 the fifth to Nethaniah, his sons and his brothers, twelve;
1 Chronicles 25:13 the sixth to Bukkiah, his sons and his brothers, twelve;
1 Chronicles 25:14 the seventh to Jesharelah, his sons and his brothers, twelve;
1 Chronicles 25:15 the eighth to Jeshaiah, his sons and his brothers, twelve;
1 Chronicles 25:16 the ninth to Mattaniah, his sons and his brothers, twelve;
1 Chronicles 25:17 the tenth to Shimei, his sons and his brothers, twelve;
1 Chronicles 25:18 the eleventh to Azarel, his sons and his brothers, twelve;
1 Chronicles 25:19 the twelfth to Hashabiah, his sons and his brothers, twelve;
1 Chronicles 25:20 to the thirteenth, Shubael, his sons and his brothers, twelve;
1 Chronicles 25:21 to the fourteenth, Mattithiah, his sons and his brothers, twelve;
1 Chronicles 25:22 to the fifteenth, to Jeremoth, his sons and his brothers, twelve;
1 Chronicles 25:23 to the sixteenth, to Hananiah, his sons and his brothers, twelve;
1 Chronicles 25:24 to the seventeenth, to Joshbekashah, his sons and his brothers, twelve;
1 Chronicles 25:25 to the eighteenth, to Hanani, his sons and his brothers, twelve;
1 Chronicles 25:26 to the nineteenth, to Mallothi, his sons and his brothers, twelve;
1 Chronicles 25:27 to the twentieth, to Eliathah, his sons and his brothers, twelve;
1 Chronicles 25:28 to the twenty-first, to Hothir, his sons and his brothers, twelve;
1 Chronicles 25:29 to the twenty-second, to Giddalti, his sons and his brothers, twelve;
1 Chronicles 25:30 to the twenty-third, to Mahazioth, his sons and his brothers, twelve;
1 Chronicles 25:31 to the twenty-fourth, to Romamti-ezer, his sons and his brothers, twelve.
1 Chronicles 26:1 As for the divisions of the gatekeepers: of the Korahites, Meshelemiah the son of Kore, of the sons of Asaph.
1 Chronicles 26:2 And Meshelemiah had sons: Zechariah the firstborn, Jediael the second, Zebadiah the third, Jathniel the fourth,
1 Chronicles 26:3 Elam the fifth, Jehohanan the sixth, Eliehoenai the seventh.
1 Chronicles 26:4 And Obed-edom had sons: Shemaiah the firstborn, Jehozabad the second, Joah the third, Sachar the fourth, Nethanel the fifth,
1 Chronicles 26:5 Ammiel the sixth, Issachar the seventh, Peullethai the eighth, for God blessed him.
1 Chronicles 26:6 Also to his son Shemaiah were sons born who were rulers in their fathers' houses, for they were men of great ability.
1 Chronicles 26:7 The sons of Shemaiah: Othni, Rephael, Obed and Elzabad, whose brothers were able men, Elihu and Semachiah.
1 Chronicles 26:8 All these were of the sons of Obed-edom with their sons and brothers, able men qualified for the service; sixty-two of Obed-edom.
1 Chronicles 26:9 And Meshelemiah had sons and brothers, able men, eighteen.
1 Chronicles 26:10 And Hosah, of the sons of Merari, had sons: Shimri the chief (for though he was not the firstborn, his father made him chief),
1 Chronicles 26:11 Hilkiah the second, Tebaliah the third, Zechariah the fourth: all the sons and brothers of Hosah were thirteen.
1 Chronicles 26:12 These divisions of the gatekeepers, corresponding to their chief men, had duties, just as their brothers did, ministering in the house of the LORD.
1 Chronicles 26:13 And they cast lots by fathers' houses, small and great alike, for their gates.
1 Chronicles 26:14 The lot for the east fell to Shelemiah. They cast lots also for his son Zechariah, a shrewd counselor, and his lot came out for the north.
1 Chronicles 26:15 Obed-edom's came out for the south, and to his sons was allotted the gatehouse.
1 Chronicles 26:16 For Shuppim and Hosah it came out for the west, at the gate of Shallecheth on the road that goes up. Watch corresponded to watch.
1 Chronicles 26:17 On the east there were six each day,  on the north four each day, on the south four each day, as well as two and two at the gatehouse.
1 Chronicles 26:18 And for the  on the west there were four at the road and two at the colonnade.
1 Chronicles 26:19 These were the divisions of the gatekeepers among the Korahites and the sons of Merari.
1 Chronicles 26:20 And of the Levites, Ahijah had charge of the treasuries of the house of God and the treasuries of the dedicated gifts.
1 Chronicles 26:21 The sons of Ladan, the sons of the Gershonites belonging to Ladan, the heads of the fathers' houses belonging to Ladan the Gershonite:
1 Chronicles 26:22  The sons of Jehieli, Zetham, and Joel his brother, were in charge of the treasuries of the house of the LORD.
1 Chronicles 26:23  Of the Amramites, the Izharites, the Hebronites, and the Uzzielites —
1 Chronicles 26:24 and Shebuel the son of Gershom, son of Moses, was chief officer in charge of the treasuries.
1 Chronicles 26:25 His brothers: from Shelomoth.
1 Chronicles 26:26 This Shelomoth and his brothers were in charge of all the treasuries of the dedicated gifts that David the king and the heads of the fathers' houses and the officers of the thousands and the hundreds and the commanders of the army had dedicated.
1 Chronicles 26:27 From spoil won in battles they dedicated gifts for the maintenance of the house of the LORD.
1 Chronicles 26:28 Also all that  and his brothers.
1 Chronicles 26:29 Of the Izharites, Chenaniah and his sons were appointed to as officers and judges.
1 Chronicles 26:30 Of the Hebronites, Hashabiah and his brothers, 1,700 men of ability, had the oversight of Israel westward of the Jordan for all the work of the LORD and for the service of the king.
1 Chronicles 26:31 Of the Hebronites, Jazer in Gilead.)
1 Chronicles 26:32 King David appointed him and his brothers, 2,700 men of ability, heads of fathers' houses, to have the oversight of the Reubenites, the Gadites and the half-tribe of the Manassites for everything pertaining to God and for the affairs of the king.
1 Chronicles 27:1 This is the number of the people of Israel, the heads of fathers' houses, the commanders of thousands and hundreds, and their officers who served the king in all matters concerning the divisions that came and went, month after month throughout the year, each division numbering 24,000:
1 Chronicles 27:2  Jashobeam the son of Zabdiel was in charge of the first division in the first month; in his division were 24,000.
1 Chronicles 27:3 He was a descendant of Perez and was chief of all the commanders. He served for the first month.
1 Chronicles 27:4   was in charge of the division of the second month; in his division were 24,000.
1 Chronicles 27:5 The third commander, for the third month, was Benaiah, the son of Jehoiada the chief priest; in his division were 24,000.
1 Chronicles 27:6 This is the Benaiah
1 Chronicles 27:7  Asahel the brother of Joab was fourth, for the fourth month, and his son Zebadiah after him; in his division were 24,000.
1 Chronicles 27:8 The fifth commander, for the fifth month, was Shamhuth the Izrahite; in his division were 24,000.
1 Chronicles 27:9 Sixth, for the sixth month, was Ira, the son of Ikkesh the Tekoite; in his division were 24,000.
1 Chronicles 27:10 Seventh, for the seventh month, was Helez the Pelonite, of the sons of Ephraim; in his division were 24,000.
1 Chronicles 27:11 Eighth, for the eighth month, was Sibbecai the Hushathite, of the Zerahites; in his division were 24,000.
1 Chronicles 27:12 Ninth, for the ninth month, was Abiezer of Anathoth, a Benjaminite; in his division were 24,000.
1 Chronicles 27:13 Tenth, for the tenth month, was Maharai of Netophah, of the Zerahites; in his division were 24,000.
1 Chronicles 27:14 Eleventh, for the eleventh month, was Benaiah of Pirathon, of the sons of Ephraim; in his division were 24,000.
1 Chronicles 27:15 Twelfth, for the twelfth month, was Othniel; in his division were 24,000.
1 Chronicles 27:16 Over the tribes of Israel, for the Reubenites, Eliezer the son of Zichri was chief officer; for the Simeonites, Shephatiah the son of Maacah;
1 Chronicles 27:17 for Levi, Zadok;
1 Chronicles 27:18 for Judah, Elihu, one of David's brothers; for Issachar, Omri the son of Michael;
1 Chronicles 27:19 for Zebulun, Ishmaiah the son of Obadiah; for Naphtali, Jeremoth the son of Azriel;
1 Chronicles 27:20 for the Ephraimites, Hoshea the son of Azaziah; for the half-tribe of Manasseh, Joel the son of Pedaiah;
1 Chronicles 27:21 for the half-tribe of Manasseh in Gilead, Iddo the son of Zechariah; for Benjamin, Jaasiel the son of Abner;
1 Chronicles 27:22 for Dan, Azarel the son of Jeroham. These were the leaders of the tribes of Israel.
1 Chronicles 27:23 David did not count those below twenty years of age, for the LORD had promised to make Israel as many as the stars of heaven.
1 Chronicles 27:24 Joab the son of Zeruiah began to count, but wrath came upon Israel for this, and the number was not entered in the chronicles of King David.
1 Chronicles 27:25 Over the king's treasuries was Azmaveth the son of Adiel; and over the treasuries in the country, in the cities, in the villages, and in the towers, was Jonathan the son of Uzziah;
1 Chronicles 27:26 and over those who did the work of the field for tilling the soil was Ezri the son of Chelub;
1 Chronicles 27:27 and over the vineyards was Shimei the Ramathite; and over the produce of the vineyards for the wine cellars was Zabdi the Shiphmite.
1 Chronicles 27:28 Over the olive and sycamore trees in the Shephelah was Baal-hanan the Gederite; and over the stores of oil was Joash.
1 Chronicles 27:29 Over the herds that pastured in Sharon was Shitrai the Sharonite; over the herds in the valleys was Shaphat the son of Adlai.
1 Chronicles 27:30 Over the camels was Obil the Ishmaelite; and over the donkeys was Jehdeiah the Meronothite. Over the flocks was Jaziz the Hagrite.
1 Chronicles 27:31 All these were stewards of King David's property.
1 Chronicles 27:32 Jonathan, David's uncle, was a counselor, being a man of understanding and a scribe. He and Jehiel the son of Hachmoni attended the king's sons.
1 Chronicles 27:33  king's counselor, and Hushai the Archite was the king's friend.
1 Chronicles 27:34 Ahithophel was succeeded by Jehoiada the son of commander of the king's army.
1 Chronicles 28:1  mighty men and all the seasoned warriors.
1 Chronicles 28:2 Then King David rose to his feet and said: “Hear me, my brothers and my people. footstool of our God, and I made preparations for building.
1 Chronicles 28:3 But God said to me, ‘You may not build a house for my name, for you are a man of war and have shed blood.’
1 Chronicles 28:4 Yet the LORD God of Israel house, and among my father's sons he took pleasure in me to make me king over all Israel.
1 Chronicles 28:5 And of has chosen Solomon my son to sit on the throne of the kingdom of the LORD over Israel.
1 Chronicles 28:6 He said to me, ‘It is Solomon your son who shall build my house and my courts, for I have chosen him to be my son, and I will be his father.
1 Chronicles 28:7 I will establish his kingdom if he continues strong in keeping my commandments and my rules, as he is today.’
1 Chronicles 28:8 Now therefore in the sight of all Israel, the assembly of the LORD, and in the hearing of our God, observe and seek out all the commandments of the LORD your God, that you may possess this good land and leave it for an inheritance to your children after you forever.
1 Chronicles 28:9 “And you, Solomon my son, know the God of your father and serve him with a If you seek him, he will be found by you, but if you forsake him, he will cast you off forever.
1 Chronicles 28:10 Be careful now, for the LORD has chosen you to build a house for the sanctuary; be strong and do it.”
1 Chronicles 28:11 Then David gave Solomon his son the mercy seat;
1 Chronicles 28:12 and the plan of all that he had in mind for the courts of the house of the LORD, all the surrounding chambers, the treasuries of the house of God, and the treasuries for dedicated gifts;
1 Chronicles 28:13 for the Levites, and all the work of the service in the house of the LORD; for all the vessels for the service in the house of the LORD,
1 Chronicles 28:14 the weight of gold for all golden vessels for each service, the weight of silver vessels for each service,
1 Chronicles 28:15 the weight of the golden lampstands and their lamps, the weight of gold for each lampstand and its lamps, the weight of silver for a lampstand and its lamps, according to the use of each lampstand in the service,
1 Chronicles 28:16 the weight of gold for each table for the showbread, the silver for the silver tables,
1 Chronicles 28:17 and pure gold for the forks, the basins and the cups; for the golden bowls and the weight of each; for the silver bowls and the weight of each;
1 Chronicles 28:18 for the cherubim that spread their wings and covered the ark of the covenant of the LORD.
1 Chronicles 28:19 “All this he made clear to me in writing from the hand of the LORD, all the work to be done according to the plan.”
1 Chronicles 28:20 Then David said to Solomon his son, “Be strong and courageous and do it. Do not be afraid and do not be dismayed, for the LORD God, even my God, is with you. He will not leave you or forsake you, until all the work for the service of the house of the LORD is finished.
1 Chronicles 28:21 And behold the every willing man who has skill for any kind of service; also the officers and all the people will be wholly at your command.”
1 Chronicles 29:1 And David the king said to all the assembly, “Solomon my son, whom alone God has chosen, is the palace will not be for man but for the LORD God.
1 Chronicles 29:2 So I have provided for the house of my God, so far as I was able, the gold for the things of gold, the silver for the things of silver, and the bronze for the things of bronze, the iron for the things of iron, and wood for the things of wood, besides great quantities of onyx and stones for setting, antimony, colored stones, all sorts of precious stones and marble.
1 Chronicles 29:3 Moreover, in addition to all that I have provided for the holy house, I have a treasure of my own of gold and silver, and because of my devotion to the house of my God I give it to the house of my God:
1 Chronicles 29:4
1 Chronicles 29:5 and for all the work to be done by craftsmen, gold for the things of gold and silver for the things of silver. Who then will offer willingly, consecrating himself  today to the LORD?”
1 Chronicles 29:6 Then the officers over the king's work.
1 Chronicles 29:7 They gave for the service of the house of God 5,000 talents and 10,000  of gold, 10,000 talents of silver, 18,000 talents of bronze and 100,000 talents of iron.
1 Chronicles 29:8 And whoever had precious stones gave them to the treasury of the house of the LORD, in the care of Jehiel the Gershonite.
1 Chronicles 29:9 Then the people rejoiced because they had given willingly, for with a whole heart they had offered freely to the LORD. David the king also rejoiced greatly.
1 Chronicles 29:10 Therefore David blessed the LORD in the presence of all the assembly. And David said: “Blessed are you, O LORD, the God of Israel our father, forever and ever.
1 Chronicles 29:11  Yours, O LORD, is the greatness and the power and the glory and the victory and the majesty, for all that is in the heavens and in the earth is yours. Yours is the kingdom, O LORD, and you are exalted as head above all.
1 Chronicles 29:12  In your hand are power and might, and in your hand it is to make great and to give strength to all.
1 Chronicles 29:13 And now we thank you, our God, and praise your glorious name.
1 Chronicles 29:14 “But who am I, and what is my people, that we should be able thus to offer willingly? For all things come from you, and of your own have we given you.
1 Chronicles 29:15
1 Chronicles 29:16 O LORD our God, all this abundance that we have provided for building you a house for your holy name comes from your hand and is all your own.
1 Chronicles 29:17 I know, my God, have pleasure in uprightness. In the uprightness of my heart I have freely offered all these things, and now I have seen your people, who are present here, offering freely and joyously to you.
1 Chronicles 29:18 O LORD, the God of Abraham, Isaac, and Israel, our fathers, keep forever such purposes and thoughts in the hearts of your people, and direct their hearts toward you.
1 Chronicles 29:19  for which I have made provision.”
1 Chronicles 29:20 Then David said to all the assembly, and bowed their heads and paid homage to the LORD and to the king.
1 Chronicles 29:21 And they offered sacrifices to the LORD, and on the next day offered burnt offerings to the LORD, 1,000 bulls, 1,000 rams, and 1,000 lambs, with their drink offerings, and sacrifices in abundance for all Israel.
1 Chronicles 29:22 And they ate and drank before the LORD on that day with great gladness. Solomon Anointed King  And they made Solomon the son of David king Zadok as priest.
1 Chronicles 29:23  throne of the LORD as king in place of David his father. And he prospered, and all Israel obeyed him.
1 Chronicles 29:24 All the leaders and the mighty men, and also all the sons of King David, pledged their allegiance to King Solomon.
1 Chronicles 29:25 And the LORD made Solomon very bestowed on him such royal majesty as had not been on any king before him in Israel.
1 Chronicles 29:26 Thus David the son of Jesse reigned over all Israel.
1 Chronicles 29:27 The time that he reigned over Israel was forty years. He reigned seven years in Hebron and thirty-three years in Jerusalem.
1 Chronicles 29:28 Then he died full of days, riches, and honor. And Solomon his son reigned in his place.
1 Chronicles 29:29 Now the acts of King David, from first to last, are written in the Chronicles Gad the seer,
1 Chronicles 29:30 with accounts of all his rule and his might and of the circumstances that came upon him and upon Israel and upon all the kingdoms of the countries.
2 Chronicles 1:1  and the LORD his God was with him and made him exceedingly great.
2 Chronicles 1:2 Solomon spoke to all Israel, to the commanders of thousands and of hundreds, to the judges, and to all the leaders in all Israel, the heads of fathers' houses.
2 Chronicles 1:3 And Solomon, and all the assembly with him, went to the tent of meeting of God, which Moses the servant of the LORD had made in the wilderness, was there.
2 Chronicles 1:4  (But David had brought up the ark of God from Kiriath-jearim to the place that David had prepared for it, for he had pitched a tent for it in Jerusalem.)
2 Chronicles 1:5 Moreover,  out.
2 Chronicles 1:6 And Solomon went up there to the bronze altar before the LORD, which was at the tent of meeting, and offered a thousand burnt offerings on it.
2 Chronicles 1:7  In that night God appeared to Solomon, and said to him, “Ask what I shall give you.”
2 Chronicles 1:8 And Solomon said to God, “You have shown great and steadfast love to David my father, and have made me king in his place.
2 Chronicles 1:9 O LORD God, as the dust of the earth.
2 Chronicles 1:10 Give me now wisdom and knowledge to go out and come in before this people, for who can govern this people of yours, which is so great?”
2 Chronicles 1:11 God answered Solomon, “Because this was in your heart, and you have not asked for possessions, wealth, honor, or the life of those who hate you, and have not even asked for long life, but have asked for wisdom and knowledge for yourself that you may govern my people over whom I have made you king,
2 Chronicles 1:12 wisdom and knowledge are granted to you. I will also give you such as none of the kings had who were before you, and none after you shall have the like.”
2 Chronicles 1:13 So Solomon came from the tent of meeting, to Jerusalem. And he reigned over Israel.
2 Chronicles 1:14  in the chariot cities and with the king in Jerusalem.
2 Chronicles 1:15 And the king made silver and gold as common in Jerusalem as stone, and he made cedar as plentiful as the sycamore of the Shephelah.
2 Chronicles 1:16 And Solomon's import of horses was from Egypt and Kue, and the king's traders would buy them from Kue for a price.
2 Chronicles 1:17 They imported a chariot from Egypt for 600 shekels  of silver, and a horse for 150. Likewise through them these were exported to all the kings of the Hittites and the kings of Syria.
2 Chronicles 2:1  Now Solomon purposed to build a temple for the name of the LORD, and a royal palace for himself.
2 Chronicles 2:2  3,600 to oversee them.
2 Chronicles 2:3  “As you dealt with David my father and sent him cedar to build himself a house to dwell in, so deal with me.
2 Chronicles 2:4 Behold, I am about to build a house for the name of the LORD my God and dedicate it to him for the burning of on the Sabbaths and the new moons and the appointed feasts of the LORD our God, as ordained forever for Israel.
2 Chronicles 2:5 The house that I am to build will be great, for our God is greater than all gods.
2 Chronicles 2:6  heaven, even highest heaven, cannot contain him? Who am I to build a house for him, except as a place to make offerings before him?
2 Chronicles 2:7 So now whom David my father provided.
2 Chronicles 2:8 Send me also cedar, cypress, and algum timber from Lebanon, for I know that your servants know how to cut timber in Lebanon. And my servants will be with your servants,
2 Chronicles 2:9 to prepare timber for me in abundance, for the house I am to build will be great and wonderful.
2 Chronicles 2:10   of wine, and 20,000 baths of oil.”
2 Chronicles 2:11 Then Hiram the king of Tyre answered in a letter that he sent to Solomon, “Because the LORD loves his people, he has made you king over them.”
2 Chronicles 2:12 Hiram also said, “Blessed be the LORD God of Israel, who will build a temple for the LORD and a royal palace for himself.
2 Chronicles 2:13 “Now I have sent a skilled man, who has understanding, Huram-abi,
2 Chronicles 2:14  trained to work in gold, silver, bronze, iron, stone, and wood, and in purple, blue, and crimson fabrics and fine linen, and to do all sorts of engraving and execute any design that may be assigned him, with your craftsmen, the craftsmen of my lord, David your father.
2 Chronicles 2:15 Now therefore the wheat and barley, oil and wine, of which my lord has spoken, let him send to his servants.
2 Chronicles 2:16  Joppa, so that you may take it up to Jerusalem.”
2 Chronicles 2:17 Then Solomon counted all the resident aliens who were in the land of Israel, after the census of them that David his father had taken, and there were found 153,600.
2 Chronicles 2:18  Seventy thousand of them he assigned to bear burdens, 80,000 to quarry in the hill country, and 3,600 as overseers to make the people work.
2 Chronicles 3:1  on the threshing floor of Ornan the Jebusite.
2 Chronicles 3:2 He began to build in the second month of the fourth year of his reign.
2 Chronicles 3:3 These are Solomon's  of the old standard, was sixty cubits, and the breadth twenty cubits.
2 Chronicles 3:4 The vestibule in front of the nave of the house was twenty cubits long, equal to the width of the house,  and its height was 120 cubits. He overlaid it on the inside with pure gold.
2 Chronicles 3:5  and made palms and chains on it.
2 Chronicles 3:6 He adorned the house with settings of precious stones. The gold was gold of Parvaim.
2 Chronicles 3:7 So he lined the house with gold — its beams, its thresholds, its walls, and its doors — and he carved cherubim on the walls.
2 Chronicles 3:8   of fine gold.
2 Chronicles 3:9 The weight of gold for the nails was fifty shekels. the upper chambers with gold.
2 Chronicles 3:10   them with gold.
2 Chronicles 3:11 The wings of the cherubim together extended twenty cubits: one wing of the one, of five cubits, touched the wall of the house, and its other wing, of five cubits, touched the wing of the other cherub;
2 Chronicles 3:12 and of this cherub, one wing, of five cubits, touched the wall of the house, and the other wing, also of five cubits, was joined to the wing of the first cherub.
2 Chronicles 3:13 The wings of these cherubim extended twenty cubits. The cherubim facing the nave.
2 Chronicles 3:14  And he made the veil of blue and purple and crimson fabrics and fine linen, and he worked cherubim on it.
2 Chronicles 3:15  In front of the house he made two pillars thirty-five cubits high, with a capital of five cubits on the top of each.
2 Chronicles 3:16 He made chains like a necklace  and put them on the tops of the pillars, and he made a hundred pomegranates and put them on the chains.
2 Chronicles 3:17  He set up the pillars in front of the temple, one on the south, the other on the north; that on the south he called Jachin, and that on the north Boaz.
2 Chronicles 4:1 He made  long and twenty cubits wide and ten cubits high.
2 Chronicles 4:2  Then he made the sea of cast metal. It was round, ten cubits from brim to brim, and five cubits high, and a line of thirty cubits measured its circumference.
2 Chronicles 4:3 Under it were figures of gourds,  for ten cubits, compassing the sea all around. The gourds were in two rows, cast with it when it was cast.
2 Chronicles 4:4 It stood on twelve oxen, three facing north, three facing west, three facing south, and three facing east. The sea was set on them, and all their rear parts were inward.
2 Chronicles 4:5 Its thickness was a handbreadth.
2 Chronicles 4:6  He also made ten basins in which to wash, and set five on the south side, and five on the north side. In these they were to rinse off what was used for the burnt offering, and the sea was for the priests to wash in.
2 Chronicles 4:7 And he made ten golden lampstands as prescribed, and set them in the temple, five on the south side and five on the north.
2 Chronicles 4:8  He also made ten tables and placed them in the temple, five on the south side and five on the north. And he made a hundred basins of gold.
2 Chronicles 4:9 He made and the great court and doors for the court and overlaid their doors with bronze.
2 Chronicles 4:10  And he set the sea at the southeast corner of the house.
2 Chronicles 4:11  So Hiram finished the work that he did for King Solomon on the house of God:
2 Chronicles 4:12 the two pillars, the bowls, and the two capitals on the top of the pillars; and the two latticeworks to cover the two bowls of the capitals that were on the top of the pillars;
2 Chronicles 4:13  and the 400 pomegranates for the two latticeworks, two rows of pomegranates for each latticework, to cover the two bowls of the capitals that were on the pillars.
2 Chronicles 4:14  He made the stands also, and the basins on the stands,
2 Chronicles 4:15 and the one sea, and the twelve oxen underneath it.
2 Chronicles 4:16 The pots, the shovels, Huram-abi made of burnished bronze for King Solomon for the house of the LORD.
2 Chronicles 4:17 In the plain of the Jordan the king cast them, in the clay ground between Succoth and Zeredah.
2 Chronicles 4:18  Solomon made all these things in great quantities, for the weight of the bronze was not sought.
2 Chronicles 4:19 So Solomon made all the vessels that were in the house of God: the golden altar, the tables for the bread of the Presence,
2 Chronicles 4:20 the lampstands and their lamps of pure gold to burn before the inner sanctuary, as prescribed;
2 Chronicles 4:21 the flowers, the lamps, and the tongs, of purest gold;
2 Chronicles 4:22 the snuffers, basins, dishes for incense, and fire pans, of pure gold, and the sockets  of the temple, for the inner doors to the Most Holy Place and for the doors of the nave of the temple were of gold.
2 Chronicles 5:1  Thus all the work that Solomon did for the house of the LORD was finished. And Solomon brought in the things that David his father had dedicated, and stored the silver, the gold, and all the vessels in the treasuries of the house of God.
2 Chronicles 5:2 Then Solomon assembled the elders of Israel and all the heads of the tribes, the leaders of the fathers' houses of the people of Israel, in Jerusalem, to bring up the ark of the covenant of the LORD out of the city of David, which is Zion.
2 Chronicles 5:3 And all the men of Israel assembled before the king at the feast that is in the seventh month.
2 Chronicles 5:4 And all the elders of Israel came, and the Levites took up the ark.
2 Chronicles 5:5 And they brought up the ark, the tent of meeting, and all the holy vessels that were in the tent; the Levitical priests brought them up.
2 Chronicles 5:6 And King Solomon and all the congregation of Israel, who had assembled before him, were before the ark, sacrificing so many sheep and oxen that they could not be counted or numbered.
2 Chronicles 5:7 Then the priests brought the ark of the covenant of the LORD to its place, in the inner sanctuary of the house, in the Most Holy Place, underneath the wings of the cherubim.
2 Chronicles 5:8 The cherubim spread out their wings over the place of the ark, so that the cherubim made a covering above the ark and its poles.
2 Chronicles 5:9 And the poles were so long that the ends of the poles were seen  there to this day.
2 Chronicles 5:10 There was nothing in the ark except the two tablets that Moses put there at Horeb, where the LORD made a covenant with the people of Israel, when they came out of Egypt.
2 Chronicles 5:11 And when the priests came out of the Holy Place (for all the priests who were present had consecrated themselves, without regard to their divisions,
2 Chronicles 5:12 and all the Levitical priests who were trumpeters;
2 Chronicles 5:13 and it was the duty of the trumpeters and singers to make themselves heard in unison in praise and thanksgiving to the LORD), and when the song was raised,“For he is good, for his steadfast love endures forever,”  the house, the house of the LORD, was filled with a cloud,
2 Chronicles 5:14 so that the priests could not stand to minister because of the cloud, for the glory of the LORD filled the house of God.
2 Chronicles 6:1  Then Solomon said, “The LORD has said that he would dwell in thick darkness.
2 Chronicles 6:2 But I have built you an exalted house, a place for you to dwell in forever.”
2 Chronicles 6:3 Then the king turned around and blessed all the assembly of Israel, while all the assembly of Israel stood.
2 Chronicles 6:4 And he said, “Blessed be the LORD, the God of Israel, who with his hand has fulfilled what he promised with his mouth to David my father, saying,
2 Chronicles 6:5 ‘Since the day that I brought my people out of the land of Egypt, I chose no city out of all the tribes of Israel in which to build a house, that my name might be there, and I chose no man as prince over my people Israel;
2 Chronicles 6:6  and I have chosen David to be over my people Israel.’
2 Chronicles 6:7  Now it was in the heart of David my father to build a house for the name of the LORD, the God of Israel.
2 Chronicles 6:8 But the LORD said to David my father, ‘Whereas it was in your heart to build a house for my name, you did well that it was in your heart.
2 Chronicles 6:9 Nevertheless, it is not you who shall build the house, but your son who shall be born to you shall build the house for my name.’
2 Chronicles 6:10 Now the LORD has fulfilled his promise that he made. For I have risen in the place of David my father and sit on the throne of Israel, as the LORD promised, and I have built the house for the name of the LORD, the God of Israel.
2 Chronicles 6:11 And there I have set the ark, in which is the covenant of the LORD that he made with the people of Israel.”
2 Chronicles 6:12 Then Solomon stood before the altar of the LORD in the presence of all the assembly of Israel and spread out his hands.
2 Chronicles 6:13  Then he knelt on his knees in the presence of all the assembly of Israel, and spread out his hands toward heaven,
2 Chronicles 6:14 and said, “O LORD, God of Israel, keeping covenant and showing steadfast love to your servants who walk before you with all their heart,
2 Chronicles 6:15  who have kept with your servant David my father what you declared to him. You spoke with your mouth, and with your hand have fulfilled it this day.
2 Chronicles 6:16 Now therefore, O LORD, God of Israel, keep for your servant David my father what you have promised him, saying, if only your sons pay close attention to their way, to walk in my law as you have walked before me.’
2 Chronicles 6:17 Now therefore, O LORD, God of Israel, let your word be confirmed, which you have spoken to your servant David.
2 Chronicles 6:18 “But will God indeed dwell with man on the earth? Behold, heaven and the highest heaven cannot contain you, how much less this house that I have built!
2 Chronicles 6:19 Yet have regard to the prayer of your servant and to his plea, O LORD my God, listening to the cry and to the prayer that your servant prays before you,
2 Chronicles 6:20  that your eyes may be open day and night toward this house, the place where you have promised to set your name, that you may listen to the prayer that your servant offers toward this place.
2 Chronicles 6:21 And listen to the pleas of your servant and of your people Israel, when they pray toward this place. And listen from heaven your dwelling place, and when you hear, forgive.
2 Chronicles 6:22 “If a man sins against his neighbor and is made to take an oath and comes and swears his oath before your altar in this house,
2 Chronicles 6:23 then hear from heaven and act and judge your servants, repaying the guilty by bringing his conduct on his own head, and vindicating the righteous by rewarding him according to his righteousness.
2 Chronicles 6:24 “If your people Israel are defeated before the enemy because they have sinned against you, and they turn again and acknowledge your name and pray and plead with you in this house,
2 Chronicles 6:25  then hear from heaven and forgive the sin of your people Israel and bring them again to the land that you gave to them and to their fathers.
2 Chronicles 6:26   them,
2 Chronicles 6:27   in which they should walk, and grant rain upon your land, which you have given to your people as an inheritance.
2 Chronicles 6:28  “If there is famine in the land, if there is pestilence or blight or mildew or locust or caterpillar, if their enemies besiege them in the land at their gates, whatever plague, whatever sickness there is,
2 Chronicles 6:29 whatever prayer, whatever plea is made by any man or by all your people Israel, each knowing his own affliction and his own sorrow and stretching out his hands toward this house,
2 Chronicles 6:30  for you, you only, know the hearts of the children of mankind,
2 Chronicles 6:31 that they may fear you and walk in your ways all the days that they live in the land that you gave to our fathers.
2 Chronicles 6:32 “Likewise, when a foreigner, who is not of your people Israel, comes from a far country for the sake of your great name and your mighty hand and your outstretched arm, when he comes and prays toward this house,
2 Chronicles 6:33 hear from heaven your dwelling place and do according to all for which the foreigner calls to you, in order that all the peoples of the earth may know your name and fear you, as do your people Israel, and that they may know that this house that I have built is called by your name.
2 Chronicles 6:34 “If your people go out to battle against their enemies, by whatever way you shall send them, and they pray to you toward this city that you have chosen and the house that I have built for your name,
2 Chronicles 6:35 then hear from heaven their prayer and their plea, and maintain their cause.
2 Chronicles 6:36 “If they sin against you — for there is no one who does not sin — and you are angry with them and give them to an enemy, so that they are carried away captive to a land far or near,
2 Chronicles 6:37 yet if they turn their heart in the land to which they have been carried captive, and repent and plead with you in the land of their captivity, saying, ‘We have sinned and have acted perversely and wickedly,’
2 Chronicles 6:38 if they repent with all their heart and with all their soul in the land of their captivity to which they were carried captive, and pray toward their land, which you gave to their fathers, the city that you have chosen and the house that I have built for your name,
2 Chronicles 6:39 then hear from heaven your dwelling place their prayer and their pleas, and maintain their cause and forgive your people who have sinned against you.
2 Chronicles 6:40 Now, O my God, and your ears attentive to the prayer of this place.
2 Chronicles 6:41 “And now arise, O LORD God, and go to your rejoice in your goodness.
2 Chronicles 6:42 O LORD God,Remember your steadfast love for David your servant.”
2 Chronicles 7:1  and the glory of the LORD filled the temple.
2 Chronicles 7:2 And the priests could not enter the house of the LORD, because the glory of the LORD filled the LORD's house.
2 Chronicles 7:3 When all the people of Israel saw the fire come down and the glory of the LORD on the temple, they bowed down with their faces to the ground on the pavement and worshiped and gave thanks to the LORD, saying, “For he is good, for his steadfast love endures forever.”
2 Chronicles 7:4  Then the king and all the people offered sacrifice before the LORD.
2 Chronicles 7:5 King Solomon offered as a sacrifice 22,000 oxen and 120,000 sheep. So the king and all the people dedicated the house of God.
2 Chronicles 7:6 The priests stood at their posts; opposite them the priests sounded trumpets, and all Israel stood.
2 Chronicles 7:7  And Solomon consecrated the middle of the court that was before the house of the LORD, for there he offered the burnt offering and the fat of the peace offerings, because the bronze altar Solomon had made could not hold the burnt offering and the grain offering and the fat.
2 Chronicles 7:8 At that time Solomon held the feast for seven days, and all Israel with him, a very great assembly, from Brook of Egypt.
2 Chronicles 7:9 And on the eighth day they held a solemn assembly, for they had kept the dedication of the altar seven days and the feast seven days.
2 Chronicles 7:10 On the twenty-third day of the seventh month he sent the people away to their homes, joyful and glad of heart for the prosperity  that the LORD had granted to David and to Solomon and to Israel his people.
2 Chronicles 7:11  Thus Solomon finished the house of the LORD and the king's house. All that Solomon had planned to do in the house of the LORD and in his own house he successfully accomplished.
2 Chronicles 7:12 Then the LORD appeared to Solomon in the night and said to him: “I have heard your prayer and have chosen this place for myself as a house of sacrifice.
2 Chronicles 7:13  When I shut up the heavens so that there is no rain, or command the locust to devour the land, or send pestilence among my people,
2 Chronicles 7:14 if my people who are called by my name humble themselves, and pray and seek my face and turn from their wicked ways, then I will hear from heaven and will forgive their sin and heal their land.
2 Chronicles 7:15  Now my eyes will be open and my ears attentive to the prayer that is made in this place.
2 Chronicles 7:16  For now I have chosen and consecrated this house that my name may be there forever. My eyes and my heart will be there for all time.
2 Chronicles 7:17 And as for you, if you will walk before me as David your father walked, doing according to all that I have commanded you and keeping my statutes and my rules,
2 Chronicles 7:18 then I will establish your royal throne, as I covenanted with David your father, saying, ‘You shall not lack a man to rule Israel.’
2 Chronicles 7:19   turn aside and forsake my statutes and my commandments that I have set before you, and go and serve other gods and worship them,
2 Chronicles 7:20  a proverb and a byword among all peoples.
2 Chronicles 7:21 And at this house, which was exalted, everyone passing by will be astonished and say, ‘Why has the LORD done thus to this land and to this house?’
2 Chronicles 7:22 Then they will say, ‘Because they abandoned the LORD, the God of their fathers who brought them out of the land of Egypt, and laid hold on other gods and worshiped them and served them. Therefore he has brought all this disaster on them.’”
2 Chronicles 8:1  At the end of twenty years, in which Solomon had built the house of the LORD and his own house,
2 Chronicles 8:2 Solomon rebuilt the cities that Hiram had given to him, and settled the people of Israel in them.
2 Chronicles 8:3 And Solomon went to Hamath-zobah and took it.
2 Chronicles 8:4 He built Tadmor in the wilderness and all the store cities that he built in Hamath.
2 Chronicles 8:5 He also built with walls, gates, and bars,
2 Chronicles 8:6 and Baalath, and all the store cities that Solomon had and all the cities for his chariots and the cities for his horsemen, and whatever Solomon desired to build in Jerusalem, in Lebanon, and in all the land of his dominion.
2 Chronicles 8:7  All the people who were left of the Hittites, the Amorites, the Perizzites, the Hivites, and the Jebusites, who were not of Israel,
2 Chronicles 8:8 from their descendants who were left after them in the land, whom the people of Israel had not destroyed — these Solomon drafted as forced labor, and so they are to this day.
2 Chronicles 8:9 But of the people of Israel Solomon made no slaves for his work; they were soldiers, and his officers, the commanders of his chariots, and his horsemen.
2 Chronicles 8:10 And these were the chief officers of King Solomon, 250, who exercised authority over the people.
2 Chronicles 8:11  Solomon brought Pharaoh's daughter up from the city of David to the house that he had built for her, for he said, “My wife shall not live in the house of David king of Israel, for the places to which the ark of the LORD has come are holy.”
2 Chronicles 8:12 Then Solomon offered up burnt offerings to the LORD on the altar of the LORD that he had built before the vestibule,
2 Chronicles 8:13  three annual feasts — the Feast of Unleavened Bread, the Feast of Weeks, and the Feast of Booths.
2 Chronicles 8:14 According to the ruling of David his father, he appointed the man of God had commanded.
2 Chronicles 8:15 And they did not turn aside from what the king had commanded the priests and Levites concerning any matter and concerning the treasuries.
2 Chronicles 8:16 Thus was accomplished all the work of Solomon from  the day the foundation of the house of the LORD was laid until it was finished. So the house of the LORD was completed.
2 Chronicles 8:17 Then Solomon went to Eloth on the shore of the sea, in the land of Edom.
2 Chronicles 8:18 And Hiram sent to him by the hand of his servants ships and servants familiar with the sea, and they went to Ophir together with the servants of Solomon and brought from there  of gold and brought it to King Solomon.
2 Chronicles 9:1  the queen of Sheba heard of the fame of Solomon, she came to Jerusalem to test him with hard questions, having a very great retinue and camels bearing spices and very much gold and precious stones. And when she came to Solomon, she told him all that was on her mind.
2 Chronicles 9:2 And Solomon answered all her questions. There was nothing hidden from Solomon that he could not explain to her.
2 Chronicles 9:3 And when the queen of Sheba had seen the wisdom of Solomon, the house that he had built,
2 Chronicles 9:4 the food of his table, the seating of his officials, and the attendance of his servants, and their clothing, his cupbearers, and their clothing, and his burnt offerings that he offered at the house of the LORD, there was no more breath in her.
2 Chronicles 9:5 And she said to the king, “The report was true that I heard in my own land of your words and of your wisdom,
2 Chronicles 9:6 but I did not believe the  reports until I came and my own eyes had seen it. And behold, half the greatness of your wisdom was not told me; you surpass the report that I heard.
2 Chronicles 9:7 Happy are your wives!  Happy are these your servants, who continually stand before you and hear your wisdom!
2 Chronicles 9:8 Blessed be the LORD your God, who has delighted in you Because your God loved Israel and would establish them forever, he has made you king over them, that you may execute justice and righteousness.”
2 Chronicles 9:9 Then she gave the king 120 talents  of gold, and a very great quantity of spices, and precious stones. There were no spices such as those that the queen of Sheba gave to King Solomon.
2 Chronicles 9:10 Moreover, the servants of Hiram and the servants of Solomon, who brought gold from Ophir, brought algum wood and precious stones.
2 Chronicles 9:11 And the king made from the algum wood supports for the house of the LORD and for the king's house, lyres also and harps for the singers. There never was seen the like of them before in the land of Judah.
2 Chronicles 9:12 And King Solomon gave to the queen of Sheba all that she desired, whatever she asked besides what she had brought to the king. So she turned and went back to her own land with her servants.
2 Chronicles 9:13  Now the weight of gold that came to Solomon in one year was 666 talents of gold,
2 Chronicles 9:14 besides that which the explorers and merchants brought. And all the kings of Arabia and the governors of the land brought gold and silver to Solomon.
2 Chronicles 9:15 King Solomon made 200 large shields of beaten gold; 600 shekels  of beaten gold went into each shield.
2 Chronicles 9:16 And he made 300 shields of beaten gold; 300 shekels of gold went into each shield; and the king put them in the House of the Forest of Lebanon.
2 Chronicles 9:17 The king also made a great ivory throne and overlaid it with pure gold.
2 Chronicles 9:18 The throne had six steps and a footstool of gold, which were attached to the throne, and on each side of the seat were armrests and two lions standing beside the armrests,
2 Chronicles 9:19 while twelve lions stood there, one on each end of a step on the six steps. Nothing like it was ever made for any kingdom.
2 Chronicles 9:20 All King Solomon's drinking vessels were of gold, and all the vessels of the House of the Forest of Lebanon were of pure gold. Silver was not considered as anything in the days of Solomon.
2 Chronicles 9:21 For the king's ships went to
2 Chronicles 9:22 Thus King Solomon excelled all the kings of the earth in riches and in wisdom.
2 Chronicles 9:23 And all the kings of the earth sought the presence of Solomon to hear his wisdom, which God had put into his mind.
2 Chronicles 9:24 Every one of them brought his present, articles of silver and of gold, garments, myrrh,  spices, horses, and mules, so much year by year.
2 Chronicles 9:25 And Solomon had 4,000 stalls for horses and chariots, and 12,000 horsemen, whom he stationed in the chariot cities and with the king in Jerusalem.
2 Chronicles 9:26   to the land of the Philistines and to the border of Egypt.
2 Chronicles 9:27  And the king made silver as common in Jerusalem as stone, and he made cedar as plentiful as the sycamore of the Shephelah.
2 Chronicles 9:28  And horses were imported for Solomon from Egypt and from all lands.
2 Chronicles 9:29  the seer concerning Jeroboam the son of Nebat?
2 Chronicles 9:30 Solomon reigned in Jerusalem over all Israel forty years.
2 Chronicles 9:31 And Solomon slept with his fathers and was buried in the city of David his father, and Rehoboam his son reigned in his place.
2 Chronicles 10:1  Rehoboam went to Shechem, for all Israel had come to Shechem to make him king.
2 Chronicles 10:2 And as soon as Jeroboam the son of Nebat heard of it (for he was in Egypt, where he had fled from King Solomon), then Jeroboam returned from Egypt.
2 Chronicles 10:3 And they sent and called him. And Jeroboam and all Israel came and said to Rehoboam,
2 Chronicles 10:4  “Your father made our yoke heavy. Now therefore lighten the hard service of your father and his heavy yoke on us, and we will serve you.”
2 Chronicles 10:5 He said to them, “Come to me again in three days.” So the people went away.
2 Chronicles 10:6 Then King Rehoboam took counsel with the old men,  who had stood before Solomon his father while he was yet alive, saying, “How do you advise me to answer this people?”
2 Chronicles 10:7 And they said to him, “If you will be good to this people and please them and speak good words to them, then they will be your servants forever.”
2 Chronicles 10:8 But he abandoned the counsel that the old men gave him, and took counsel with the young men who had grown up with him and stood before him.
2 Chronicles 10:9 And he said to them, “What do you advise that we answer this people who have said to me, ‘Lighten the yoke that your father put on us’?”
2 Chronicles 10:10 And the young men who had grown up with him said to him, “Thus shall you speak to the people who said to you, ‘Your father made our yoke heavy, but you lighten it for us’; thus shall you say to them, ‘My little finger is thicker than my father's thighs.
2 Chronicles 10:11 And now, whereas my father laid on you a heavy yoke, I will add to your yoke. My father disciplined you with whips, but I will discipline you with scorpions.’”
2 Chronicles 10:12 So Jeroboam and all the people came to Rehoboam the third day, as the king said, “Come to me again the third day.”
2 Chronicles 10:13 And the king answered them harshly; and forsaking the counsel of the old men,
2 Chronicles 10:14 King Rehoboam spoke to them according to the counsel of the young men, saying, “My father made your yoke heavy, but I will add to it. My father disciplined you with whips, but I will discipline you with scorpions.”
2 Chronicles 10:15 So the king did not listen to the people, for it was a turn of affairs brought about by God that the LORD might fulfill his word, which he spoke by Ahijah the Shilonite to Jeroboam the son of Nebat.
2 Chronicles 10:16 And when all Israel saw that the king did not listen to them, the people answered the king, “What portion have we in David? We have no inheritance in the son of Jesse. Each of you to your tents, O Israel! Look now to your own house, David.” So all Israel went to their tents.
2 Chronicles 10:17 But Rehoboam reigned over the people of Israel who lived in the cities of Judah.
2 Chronicles 10:18 Then King Rehoboam sent  who was taskmaster over the forced labor, and the people of Israel stoned him to death with stones. And King Rehoboam quickly mounted his chariot to flee to Jerusalem.
2 Chronicles 10:19 So Israel has been in rebellion against the house of David to this day.
2 Chronicles 11:1  When Rehoboam came to Jerusalem, he assembled the house of Judah and Benjamin, 180,000 chosen warriors, to fight against Israel, to restore the kingdom to Rehoboam.
2 Chronicles 11:2 But the word of the LORD came to Shemaiah the man of God:
2 Chronicles 11:3 “Say to Rehoboam the son of Solomon, king of Judah, and to all Israel in Judah and Benjamin,
2 Chronicles 11:4 ‘Thus says the LORD, You shall not go up or fight against your relatives. Return every man to his home, for this thing is from me.’” So they listened to the word of the LORD and returned and did not go against Jeroboam.
2 Chronicles 11:5 Rehoboam lived in Jerusalem, and he built cities for defense in Judah.
2 Chronicles 11:6 He built Bethlehem, Etam, Tekoa,
2 Chronicles 11:7 Beth-zur, Soco, Adullam,
2 Chronicles 11:8 Gath, Mareshah, Ziph,
2 Chronicles 11:9 Adoraim, Lachish, Azekah,
2 Chronicles 11:10 Zorah, Aijalon, and Hebron, fortified cities that are in Judah and in Benjamin.
2 Chronicles 11:11 He made the fortresses strong, and put commanders in them, and stores of food, oil, and wine.
2 Chronicles 11:12 And he put shields and spears in all the cities and made them very strong. So he held Judah and Benjamin.
2 Chronicles 11:13 And the priests and the Levites who were in all Israel presented themselves to him from all places where they lived.
2 Chronicles 11:14 For the Levites left because Jeroboam and his sons cast them out from serving as priests of the LORD,
2 Chronicles 11:15 and he appointed his own the calves that he had made.
2 Chronicles 11:16  And those who had set their hearts to seek the LORD God of Israel came after them from all the tribes of Israel to Jerusalem to sacrifice to the LORD, the God of their fathers.
2 Chronicles 11:17  They strengthened the kingdom of Judah, and for three years they made Rehoboam the son of Solomon secure, for they walked for three years in the way of David and Solomon.
2 Chronicles 11:18 Rehoboam took as wife Mahalath the daughter of Jerimoth the son of David, and of Abihail the daughter of Eliab the son of Jesse,
2 Chronicles 11:19 and she bore him sons, Jeush, Shemariah, and Zaham.
2 Chronicles 11:20 After her he took Abijah, Attai, Ziza, and Shelomith.
2 Chronicles 11:21 Rehoboam loved Maacah the daughter of Absalom above all his wives and concubines (he took eighteen wives and sixty concubines, and fathered twenty-eight sons and sixty daughters).
2 Chronicles 11:22  Abijah the son of Maacah as chief prince among his brothers, for he intended to make him king.
2 Chronicles 11:23 And he dealt wisely and distributed some of his sons through all the districts of Judah and Benjamin, in all the fortified cities, and he gave them abundant provisions and procured wives for them.
2 Chronicles 12:1  he abandoned the law of the LORD, and all Israel with him.
2 Chronicles 12:2  Shishak king of Egypt came up against Jerusalem
2 Chronicles 12:3 with 1,200 chariots and 60,000 horsemen. And the people were without number who came with him from Egypt — Libyans, Sukkiim, and Ethiopians.
2 Chronicles 12:4 And he took the fortified cities of Judah and came as far as Jerusalem.
2 Chronicles 12:5 Then ‘You abandoned me, so I have abandoned you to the hand of Shishak.’”
2 Chronicles 12:6 Then the princes of “The LORD is righteous.”
2 Chronicles 12:7 When the LORD saw that they humbled themselves, the word of the LORD came to Shemaiah: and my wrath shall not be poured out on Jerusalem by the hand of Shishak.
2 Chronicles 12:8 Nevertheless, they shall be servants to him, that they may know my service and the service of the kingdoms of the countries.”
2 Chronicles 12:9  the shields of gold that Solomon had made,
2 Chronicles 12:10 and King Rehoboam made in their place shields of bronze and committed them to the hands of the officers of the guard, who kept the door of the king's house.
2 Chronicles 12:11 And as often as the king went into the house of the LORD, the guard came and carried them and brought them back to the guardroom.
2 Chronicles 12:12 And when  in Judah.
2 Chronicles 12:13  So King Rehoboam grew strong in Jerusalem and reigned. Rehoboam was forty-one years old when he began to reign, and he reigned seventeen years in Jerusalem, the city that the LORD had chosen out of all the tribes of Israel to put his name there. His mother's name was Naamah the Ammonite.
2 Chronicles 12:14 And he did evil, for he did not set his heart to seek the LORD.
2 Chronicles 12:15   There were continual wars between Rehoboam and Jeroboam.
2 Chronicles 12:16 And Rehoboam slept with his fathers and was buried in the city of David, and  his son reigned in his place.
2 Chronicles 13:1  Abijah began to reign over Judah.
2 Chronicles 13:2 He reigned for three years in Jerusalem. His mother's name wasNow there was war between Abijah and Jeroboam.
2 Chronicles 13:3 Abijah went out to battle, having an army of valiant men of war, 400,000 chosen men. And Jeroboam drew up his line of battle against him with 800,000 chosen mighty warriors.
2 Chronicles 13:4 Then Abijah stood up on Mount the hill country of Ephraim and said, “Hear me, O Jeroboam and all Israel!
2 Chronicles 13:5 Ought you not to know that the LORD God of Israel a covenant of salt?
2 Chronicles 13:6 Yet Jeroboam the son of Nebat, a servant of Solomon the son of David, rose up and rebelled against his lord,
2 Chronicles 13:7 and certain  and could not withstand them.
2 Chronicles 13:8 “And now you think to withstand the kingdom of the LORD in the hand of the sons of David, because you are a great multitude and have with you the golden calves that Jeroboam made you for gods.
2 Chronicles 13:9  not gods.
2 Chronicles 13:10 But as for us, the LORD is our God, and we have not forsaken him. We have priests ministering to the LORD who are sons of Aaron, and Levites for their service.
2 Chronicles 13:11 They offer to the LORD keep the charge of the LORD our God, but you have forsaken him.
2 Chronicles 13:12 Behold, God is with us at our head, and his priests do not fight against the LORD, the God of your fathers, for you cannot succeed.”
2 Chronicles 13:13 Jeroboam had sent  were in front of Judah, and the ambush was behind them.
2 Chronicles 13:14 And when Judah looked, behold, the battle was in front of and behind them. blew the trumpets.
2 Chronicles 13:15 Then the men of Judah raised the battle shout. And when the men of Judah shouted, God defeated Jeroboam and all Israel before Abijah and Judah.
2 Chronicles 13:16 The men of Israel fled before Judah, and God gave them into their hand.
2 Chronicles 13:17 Abijah and his people struck them with great force, so there fell slain of Israel 500,000 chosen men.
2 Chronicles 13:18 Thus the men of Israel were subdued at that time, and the men of Judah prevailed, because they relied on the LORD, the God of their fathers.
2 Chronicles 13:19 And Abijah pursued Jeroboam  with its villages.
2 Chronicles 13:20 Jeroboam did not recover his power in the days of Abijah. and he died.
2 Chronicles 13:21 But Abijah grew mighty. And he took fourteen wives and had twenty-two sons and sixteen daughters.
2 Chronicles 13:22 The rest of the acts of Abijah, his ways and his sayings, are written in the Iddo.
2 Chronicles 14:1  Abijah slept with his fathers, and they buried him in the city of David. And Asa his son reigned in his place. In his days the land had rest for ten years.
2 Chronicles 14:2  And Asa did what was good and right in the eyes of the LORD his God.
2 Chronicles 14:3 He took away the foreign altars Asherim
2 Chronicles 14:4 and commanded Judah to seek the LORD, the God of their fathers, and to keep the law and the commandment.
2 Chronicles 14:5 He also took out of all the cities of Judah incense altars. And the kingdom had rest under him.
2 Chronicles 14:6 He built for the LORD gave him peace.
2 Chronicles 14:7 And he said to Judah, “Let us build these cities and surround them with and he has given us peace on every side.” So they built and prospered.
2 Chronicles 14:8 And Asa had an army of 300,000 from Judah, armed with large shields and spears, and 280,000 men from Benjamin that carried shields and drew bows. All these were mighty men of valor.
2 Chronicles 14:9 Zerah Mareshah.
2 Chronicles 14:10 And Asa went out to meet him, and Mareshah.
2 Chronicles 14:11 And Asa and in your name we have come against this multitude. O LORD, you are our God; let not man prevail against you.”
2 Chronicles 14:12  So the LORD defeated the Ethiopians before Asa and before Judah, and the Ethiopians fled.
2 Chronicles 14:13 Asa and the people who were with him pursued them as far as  carried away very much spoil.
2 Chronicles 14:14 And they attacked all the cities around for the fear of the LORD was upon them. They plundered all the cities, for there was much plunder in them.
2 Chronicles 14:15 And they struck down the tents of those who had livestock and carried away sheep in abundance and camels. Then they returned to Jerusalem.
2 Chronicles 15:1   upon Azariah the son of Oded,
2 Chronicles 15:2 and he went out to meet Asa and said to him, “Hear me, Asa, and all Judah and Benjamin: but if you forsake him, he will forsake you.
2 Chronicles 15:3  For a long time Israel was without the true God, and without a teaching priest and without law,
2 Chronicles 15:4  but when in their distress they turned to the LORD, the God of Israel, and sought him, he was found by them.
2 Chronicles 15:5 In those times there was no peace to him who went out or to him who came in, for great disturbances afflicted all the inhabitants of the lands.
2 Chronicles 15:6 They were broken in pieces. Nation was crushed by nation and city by city, for God troubled them with every sort of distress.
2 Chronicles 15:7  for your work shall be rewarded.”
2 Chronicles 15:8 As soon as Asa heard these words,
2 Chronicles 15:9 And he gathered all Judah and Benjamin, and those from Ephraim, Manasseh, and Simeon who were residing with them, for great numbers had deserted to him from Israel when they saw that the LORD his God was with him.
2 Chronicles 15:10 They were gathered at Jerusalem in the third month of the fifteenth year of the reign of Asa.
2 Chronicles 15:11 They sacrificed to the LORD on that day from the spoil that they had brought 700 oxen and 7,000 sheep.
2 Chronicles 15:12  And they entered into a covenant to seek the LORD, the God of their fathers, with all their heart and with all their soul,
2 Chronicles 15:13 but that whoever would not seek the LORD, the God of Israel, should be put to death, whether young or old, man or woman.
2 Chronicles 15:14 They swore an oath to the LORD with a loud voice and with shouting and with trumpets and with horns.
2 Chronicles 15:15 And all Judah rejoiced over the oath, for they had sworn with all their heart and had sought him with their whole desire, and he was found by them, and the LORD gave them rest all around.
2 Chronicles 15:16  crushed it, and burned it at the brook Kidron.
2 Chronicles 15:17  But the high places were not taken out of Israel. Nevertheless, the heart of Asa was wholly true all his days.
2 Chronicles 15:18 And he brought into the house of God the sacred gifts of his father and his own sacred gifts, silver, and gold, and vessels.
2 Chronicles 15:19 And there was no more war until the thirty-fifth year of the reign of Asa.
2 Chronicles 16:1  that he might permit no one to go out or come in to Asa king of Judah.
2 Chronicles 16:2 Then Asa took silver and gold from the treasures of the house of the LORD and the king's house and sent them to Ben-hadad king of Syria, who lived in Damascus, saying,
2 Chronicles 16:3 “There is a covenant  between me and you, as there was between my father and your father. Behold, I am sending to you silver and gold. Go, break your covenant with Baasha king of Israel, that he may withdraw from me.”
2 Chronicles 16:4 And Ben-hadad listened to King Asa and sent the commanders of his armies against the cities of Israel, and they conquered Ijon, Dan, Abel-maim, and all the store cities of Naphtali.
2 Chronicles 16:5 And when Baasha heard of it, he stopped building Ramah and let his work cease.
2 Chronicles 16:6 Then King Asa took all Judah, and they carried away the stones of Ramah and its timber, with which Baasha had been building, and with them he built Geba and Mizpah.
2 Chronicles 16:7 At that time “Because you relied on the king of Syria, and did not rely on the LORD your God, the army of the king of Syria has escaped you.
2 Chronicles 16:8 Were not because you relied on the LORD, he gave them into your hand.
2 Chronicles 16:9  you will have wars.”
2 Chronicles 16:10 Then Asa was angry with the seer and put him in the stocks in prison, for he was in a rage with him because of this. And Asa inflicted cruelties upon some of the people at the same time.
2 Chronicles 16:11  The acts of Asa, from first to last, are written in the Book of the Kings of Judah and Israel.
2 Chronicles 16:12 In the thirty-ninth year of his reign Asa was diseased in his feet, and his disease became severe. Yet even in his disease he did not seek the LORD, but sought help from physicians.
2 Chronicles 16:13 And Asa slept with his fathers, dying in the forty-first year of his reign.
2 Chronicles 16:14 They buried him in the tomb that he had cut for himself in the city of David. They laid him on a bier and they made a very great fire in his honor.
2 Chronicles 17:1 Jehoshaphat his son reigned in his place and strengthened himself against Israel.
2 Chronicles 17:2 He placed forces in all the that Asa his father had captured.
2 Chronicles 17:3 The LORD was with Jehoshaphat, because he walked in the earlier ways of his father David. He did not seek the Baals,
2 Chronicles 17:4 but sought the God of his father and walked in his commandments, and not according to the practices of Israel.
2 Chronicles 17:5 Therefore the LORD established the kingdom in his hand. And all Judah and he had great riches and honor.
2 Chronicles 17:6 His heart was courageous in the ways of the LORD. And furthermore, he took the high places and the Asherim out of Judah.
2 Chronicles 17:7 In the third year of his reign he sent his officials, Ben-hail, Obadiah, Zechariah, Nethanel, and Micaiah, to teach in the cities of Judah;
2 Chronicles 17:8  and with them the Levites, Shemaiah, Nethaniah, Zebadiah, Asahel, Shemiramoth, Jehonathan, Adonijah, Tobijah, and Tobadonijah; and with these Levites, the priests Elishama and Jehoram.
2 Chronicles 17:9 And they taught in Judah, having the Book of the Law of the LORD with them. They went about through all the cities of Judah and taught among the people.
2 Chronicles 17:10  And the fear of the LORD fell upon all the kingdoms of the lands that were around Judah, and they made no war against Jehoshaphat.
2 Chronicles 17:11 Some of the Philistines brought Jehoshaphat presents and silver for tribute, and the Arabians also brought him 7,700 rams and 7,700 goats.
2 Chronicles 17:12 And Jehoshaphat grew steadily greater. He built in Judah fortresses and store cities,
2 Chronicles 17:13 and he had large supplies in the cities of Judah. He had soldiers, mighty men of valor, in Jerusalem.
2 Chronicles 17:14 This was the muster of them by fathers' houses: Of Judah, the commanders of thousands: Adnah the commander, with 300,000 mighty men of valor;
2 Chronicles 17:15 and next to him Jehohanan the commander, with 280,000;
2 Chronicles 17:16 and next to him Amasiah the son of Zichri, a volunteer for the service of the LORD, with 200,000 mighty men of valor.
2 Chronicles 17:17 Of Benjamin: Eliada, a mighty man of valor, with 200,000 men armed with bow and shield;
2 Chronicles 17:18 and next to him Jehozabad with 180,000 armed for war.
2 Chronicles 17:19 These were in the service of the king, besides those whom the king had placed in the fortified cities throughout all Judah.
2 Chronicles 18:1 Now Jehoshaphat and he made a marriage alliance with Ahab.
2 Chronicles 18:2  After some years he went down to Ahab in Samaria. And Ahab killed an abundance of sheep and oxen for him and for the people who were with him, and induced him to go up against Ramoth-gilead.
2 Chronicles 18:3 Ahab king of Israel said to Jehoshaphat king of Judah, “Will you go with me to Ramoth-gilead?” He answered him, “I am as you are, my people as your people. We will be with you in the war.”
2 Chronicles 18:4 And Jehoshaphat said to the king of Israel, “Inquire first for the word of the LORD.”
2 Chronicles 18:5 Then the king of Israel gathered the prophets together, four hundred men, and said to them, “Shall we go to battle against Ramoth-gilead, or shall I refrain?” And they said, “Go up, for God will give it into the hand of the king.”
2 Chronicles 18:6 But Jehoshaphat said, “Is there not here another prophet of the LORD of whom we may inquire?”
2 Chronicles 18:7 And the king of Israel said to Jehoshaphat, “There is yet one man by whom we may inquire of the LORD, Micaiah the son of Imlah; but I hate him, for he never prophesies good concerning me, but always evil.” And Jehoshaphat said, “Let not the king say so.”
2 Chronicles 18:8 Then the king of Israel summoned an officer and said, “Bring quickly Micaiah the son of Imlah.”
2 Chronicles 18:9 Now the king of Israel and Jehoshaphat the king of Judah were sitting on their thrones, arrayed in their robes. And they were sitting at the threshing floor at the entrance of the gate of Samaria, and all the prophets were prophesying before them.
2 Chronicles 18:10 And Zedekiah the son of Chenaanah made for himself horns of iron and said, “Thus says the LORD, ‘With these you shall push the Syrians until they are destroyed.’”
2 Chronicles 18:11 And all the prophets prophesied so and said, “Go up to Ramoth-gilead and triumph. The LORD will give it into the hand of the king.”
2 Chronicles 18:12 And the messenger who went to summon Micaiah said to him, “Behold, the words of the prophets with one accord are favorable to the king. Let your word be like the word of one of them, and speak favorably.”
2 Chronicles 18:13 But Micaiah said, what my God says, that I will speak.”
2 Chronicles 18:14 And when he had come to the king, the king said to him, “Micaiah, shall we go to Ramoth-gilead to battle, or shall I refrain?” And he answered, “Go up and triumph; they will be given into your hand.”
2 Chronicles 18:15 But the king said to him, “How many times shall I make you swear that you speak to me nothing but the truth in the name of the LORD?”
2 Chronicles 18:16 And he said, “I saw all Israel scattered on the mountains, as sheep that have no shepherd. And the LORD said, ‘These have no master; let each return to his home in peace.’”
2 Chronicles 18:17 And the king of Israel said to Jehoshaphat, “Did I not tell you that he would not prophesy good concerning me, but evil?”
2 Chronicles 18:18 And Micaiah said, “Therefore hear the word of the LORD: I saw the LORD sitting on his throne, and all the host of heaven standing on his right hand and on his left.
2 Chronicles 18:19 And the LORD said, ‘Who will entice Ahab the king of Israel, that he may go up and fall at Ramoth-gilead?’ And one said one thing, and another said another.
2 Chronicles 18:20 Then a spirit came forward and stood before the LORD, saying, ‘I will entice him.’ And the LORD said to him, ‘By what means?’
2 Chronicles 18:21 And he said, ‘I will go out, and will be a lying spirit in the mouth of all his prophets.’ And he said, ‘You are to entice him, and you shall succeed; go out and do so.’
2 Chronicles 18:22 Now therefore behold, the LORD has put a lying spirit in the mouth of these your prophets. The LORD has declared disaster concerning you.”
2 Chronicles 18:23 Then Zedekiah the son of Chenaanah came near and struck Micaiah on the cheek and said, “Which way did the Spirit of the LORD go from me to speak to you?”
2 Chronicles 18:24 And Micaiah said, “Behold, you shall see on that day when you go into an inner chamber to hide yourself.”
2 Chronicles 18:25 And the king of Israel said, “Seize Micaiah and take him back to Amon the governor of the city and to Joash the king's son,
2 Chronicles 18:26 and say, ‘Thus says the king, Put this fellow in prison and feed him with meager rations of bread and water until I return in peace.’”
2 Chronicles 18:27 And Micaiah said, “If you return in peace, the LORD has not spoken by me.” And he said, “Hear, all you peoples!”
2 Chronicles 18:28 So the king of Israel and Jehoshaphat the king of Judah went up to Ramoth-gilead.
2 Chronicles 18:29 And the king of Israel said to Jehoshaphat, “I will disguise myself and go into battle, but you wear your robes.” And the king of Israel disguised himself, and they went into battle.
2 Chronicles 18:30 Now the king of Syria had commanded the captains of his chariots, “Fight with neither small nor great, but only with the king of Israel.”
2 Chronicles 18:31 As soon as the captains of the chariots saw Jehoshaphat, they said, “It is the king of Israel.” So they turned to fight against him. And Jehoshaphat cried out, and the LORD helped him; God drew them away from him.
2 Chronicles 18:32 For as soon as the captains of the chariots saw that it was not the king of Israel, they turned back from pursuing him.
2 Chronicles 18:33 But a certain man drew his bow at random  and struck the king of Israel between the scale armor and the breastplate. Therefore he said to the driver of his chariot, “Turn around and carry me out of the battle, for I am wounded.”
2 Chronicles 18:34 And the battle continued that day, and the king of Israel was propped up in his chariot facing the Syrians until evening. Then at sunset he died.
2 Chronicles 19:1 Jehoshaphat the king of Judah returned in safety to his house in Jerusalem.
2 Chronicles 19:2 But wrath has gone out against you from the LORD.
2 Chronicles 19:3 Nevertheless, set your heart to seek God.”
2 Chronicles 19:4 Jehoshaphat lived at Jerusalem. And he went out again among the people, from Beersheba to the hill country of Ephraim, and brought them back to the LORD, the God of their fathers.
2 Chronicles 19:5 He appointed the fortified cities of Judah, city by city,
2 Chronicles 19:6 and said to the judges, “Consider what you do, for you judge not for man but for the LORD. He is with you in giving judgment.
2 Chronicles 19:7 Now then, let the fear of the LORD be upon you. Be careful what you do, for or partiality or taking bribes.”
2 Chronicles 19:8 Moreover, in Jerusalem Jehoshaphat to give judgment for the LORD and to decide disputed cases. They had their seat at Jerusalem.
2 Chronicles 19:9 And he charged them: and with your whole heart:
2 Chronicles 19:10  wrath may not come upon you and your brothers. Thus you shall do, and you will not incur guilt.
2 Chronicles 19:11 And behold, Amariah the chief priest is over you
2 Chronicles 20:1 After this  came against Jehoshaphat for battle.
2 Chronicles 20:2 Some men came and told Jehoshaphat, “A great multitude is coming against you from Edom, Engedi).
2 Chronicles 20:3 Then Jehoshaphat was afraid and set his face proclaimed a fast throughout all Judah.
2 Chronicles 20:4 And Judah assembled to seek help from the LORD; from all the cities of Judah they came to seek the LORD.
2 Chronicles 20:5 And Jehoshaphat stood in the assembly of Judah and Jerusalem, in the house of the LORD, before the new court,
2 Chronicles 20:6 and said, “O LORD, God of our fathers, are you not In your hand are power and might, so that none is able to withstand you.
2 Chronicles 20:7 Did you not, our God, Abraham your friend?
2 Chronicles 20:8 And they have lived in it and have built for you in it a sanctuary for your name, saying,
2 Chronicles 20:9  for your name is in this house — and cry out to you in our affliction, and you will hear and save.’
2 Chronicles 20:10 And now behold, the men of and whom they avoided and did not destroy —
2 Chronicles 20:11 behold, they reward us by coming to drive us out of your possession, which you have given us to inherit.
2 Chronicles 20:12 O our God, will you not our eyes are on you.”
2 Chronicles 20:13 Meanwhile all Judah stood before the LORD, with their little ones, their wives, and their children.
2 Chronicles 20:14 And  upon Jahaziel the son of Zechariah, son of Benaiah, son of Jeiel, son of Mattaniah, a Levite of the sons of Asaph, in the midst of the assembly.
2 Chronicles 20:15 And he said, “Listen, all Judah and inhabitants of Jerusalem and King Jehoshaphat: Thus says the LORD to you, for the battle is not yours but God's.
2 Chronicles 20:16 Tomorrow go down against them. Behold, they will come up by the ascent of Ziz. You will find them at the end of the valley, east of the wilderness of Jeruel.
2 Chronicles 20:17  and the LORD will be with you.”
2 Chronicles 20:18 Then Jehoshaphat bowed his head with his face to the ground, and all Judah and the inhabitants of Jerusalem fell down before the LORD, worshiping the LORD.
2 Chronicles 20:19 And the Levites, of the Korahites, stood up to praise the LORD, the God of Israel, with a very loud voice.
2 Chronicles 20:20 And they rose early in the morning and went out into Believe in the LORD your God, and you will be established; believe his prophets, and you will succeed.”
2 Chronicles 20:21 And when he had taken counsel with the people, he appointed those who were to sing to the LORD and praise him“Give thanks to the LORD, for his steadfast love endures forever.”
2 Chronicles 20:22 And when they began to sing and praise, the LORD set Ammon, Moab, and Mount Seir, who had come against Judah, so that they were routed.
2 Chronicles 20:23 For the men of Ammon and Moab rose against the inhabitants of Mount Seir, devoting them to destruction, and when they had made an end of the inhabitants of Seir, they all helped to destroy one another.
2 Chronicles 20:24 When Judah came to the watchtower of the wilderness, they looked toward the horde, and behold, there  were dead bodies lying on the ground; none had escaped.
2 Chronicles 20:25 When Jehoshaphat and his people came to take their spoil, they found among them, in great numbers, goods, clothing, and precious things, which they took for themselves until they could carry no more. They were three days in taking the spoil, it was so much.
2 Chronicles 20:26 On the fourth day they assembled in the Valley of Beracah,  for there they blessed the LORD. Therefore the name of that place has been called the Valley of Beracah to this day.
2 Chronicles 20:27 Then they returned, every man of Judah and Jerusalem, and Jehoshaphat at their head, returning to Jerusalem with joy, for the LORD had made them rejoice over their enemies.
2 Chronicles 20:28 They came to Jerusalem with harps and lyres and trumpets, to the house of the LORD.
2 Chronicles 20:29  And the fear of God came on all the kingdoms of the countries when they heard that the LORD had fought against the enemies of Israel.
2 Chronicles 20:30 So the realm of Jehoshaphat was quiet, for his God gave him rest all around.
2 Chronicles 20:31  Thus Jehoshaphat reigned over Judah. He was thirty-five years old when he began to reign, and he reigned twenty-five years in Jerusalem. His mother's name was Azubah the daughter of Shilhi.
2 Chronicles 20:32 He walked in the way of Asa his father and did not turn aside from it, doing what was right in the sight of the LORD.
2 Chronicles 20:33  the people had not yet set their hearts upon the God of their fathers.
2 Chronicles 20:34 Now the rest of the acts of Jehoshaphat, from first to last, are written in the chronicles of which are recorded in the Book of the Kings of Israel.
2 Chronicles 20:35  After this Jehoshaphat king of Judah joined with Ahaziah king of Israel, who acted wickedly.
2 Chronicles 20:36 He joined him in building ships to go to Tarshish, and they built the ships in Ezion-geber.
2 Chronicles 20:37 Then Eliezer the son of Dodavahu of Mareshah prophesied against Jehoshaphat, saying, “Because you have joined with Ahaziah, the LORD will destroy what you have made.” And the ships were wrecked and were not able to go to Tarshish.
2 Chronicles 21:1  Jehoshaphat slept with his fathers and was buried with his fathers in the city of David, and Jehoram his son reigned in his place.
2 Chronicles 21:2 He had brothers, the sons of Jehoshaphat: Azariah, Jehiel, Zechariah, Azariah, Michael, and Shephatiah; all these were the sons of Jehoshaphat king of
2 Chronicles 21:3 Their father gave them great gifts of silver, gold, and valuable possessions, together with fortified cities in Judah, but he gave the kingdom to Jehoram, because he was the firstborn.
2 Chronicles 21:4 When Jehoram had ascended the throne of his father and was established, he killed all his brothers with the sword, and also some of the princes of Israel.
2 Chronicles 21:5  thirty-two years old when he became king, and he reigned eight years in Jerusalem.
2 Chronicles 21:6  the daughter of Ahab was his wife. And he did what was evil in the sight of the LORD.
2 Chronicles 21:7 Yet the LORD was not willing to destroy the house of David, because of the covenant that he had made with David, and since he had promised to give a lamp to him and to his sons forever.
2 Chronicles 21:8 In his days Edom revolted from the rule of Judah and set up a king of their own.
2 Chronicles 21:9 Then Jehoram passed over with his commanders and all his chariots, and he rose by night and struck the Edomites who had surrounded him and his chariot commanders.
2 Chronicles 21:10 So Edom revolted from the rule of Judah to this day. At that time Libnah also revolted from his rule, because he had forsaken the LORD, the God of his fathers.
2 Chronicles 21:11 Moreover, he made high places in the hill country of Judah and led the inhabitants of Jerusalem into whoredom and made Judah go astray.
2 Chronicles 21:12 And a letter came to him from Elijah the prophet, saying, “Thus says the LORD, the God of David your father, in the ways of Asa king of Judah,
2 Chronicles 21:13  have killed your brothers, of your father's house, who were better than you,
2 Chronicles 21:14 behold, the LORD will bring a great plague on your people, your children, your wives, and all your possessions,
2 Chronicles 21:15 and you yourself will have a severe sickness with a disease of your bowels, until your bowels come out because of the disease, day by day.’”
2 Chronicles 21:16  the Arabians who are near the Ethiopians.
2 Chronicles 21:17 And they came up against Judah and invaded it and carried away all the possessions they found that belonged to the king's house, and also his sons and his wives, so that no son was left to him except Jehoahaz, his youngest son.
2 Chronicles 21:18 And after all this the LORD struck him in his bowels with an incurable disease.
2 Chronicles 21:19 In the course of time, at the end of two years, his bowels came out because of the disease, and he died in great agony. His people made no fire in his honor, like the fires made for his fathers.
2 Chronicles 21:20  They buried him in the city of David, but not in the tombs of the kings.
2 Chronicles 22:1  the Arabians to the camp had killed all the older sons. So Ahaziah the son of Jehoram king of Judah reigned.
2 Chronicles 22:2 Ahaziah was twenty-two the granddaughter of Omri.
2 Chronicles 22:3 He also walked in the ways of the house of Ahab, for his mother was his counselor in doing wickedly.
2 Chronicles 22:4 He did what was evil in the sight of the LORD, as the house of Ahab had done. For after the death of his father they were his counselors, to his undoing.
2 Chronicles 22:5 He even followed their counsel and went with Jehoram the son of Ahab king of Israel to make war against Hazael king of Syria at Ramoth-gilead. And the Syrians wounded Joram,
2 Chronicles 22:6 and he returned to be healed in Jezreel of the wounds that he had received at Ramah, when he fought against Hazael king of Syria. And Ahaziah the son of Jehoram king of Judah went down to see Joram the son of Ahab in Jezreel, because he was wounded.
2 Chronicles 22:7 But it was ordained by whom the LORD had anointed to destroy the house of Ahab.
2 Chronicles 22:8  executing judgment on the house of Ahab, he met the princes of Judah and the sons of Ahaziah's brothers, who attended Ahaziah, and he killed them.
2 Chronicles 22:9  who sought the LORD with all his heart.” And the house of Ahaziah had no one able to rule the kingdom.
2 Chronicles 22:10  Now when Athaliah the mother of Ahaziah saw that her son was dead, she arose and destroyed all the royal family of the house of Judah.
2 Chronicles 22:11 But Jehoshabeath,  from Athaliah, so that she did not put him to death.
2 Chronicles 22:12 And he remained with them six years, hidden in the house of God, while Athaliah reigned over the land.
2 Chronicles 23:1  But in the seventh year Jehoiada took courage and entered into a covenant with the commanders of hundreds, Azariah the son of Jeroham, Ishmael the son of Jehohanan, Azariah the son of Obed, Maaseiah the son of Adaiah, and Elishaphat the son of Zichri.
2 Chronicles 23:2 And they went about through Judah and gathered the Levites from all the cities of Judah, and the heads of fathers' houses of Israel, and they came to Jerusalem.
2 Chronicles 23:3 And all the assembly made a covenant with the king in the house of God. And Jehoiada as the LORD spoke concerning the sons of David.
2 Chronicles 23:4 This is the thing that you shall do: of you priests and Levites who come off duty on the Sabbath, one third shall be gatekeepers,
2 Chronicles 23:5 and one third shall be at the king's house and one third at the Gate of the Foundation. And all the people shall be in the courts of the house of the LORD.
2 Chronicles 23:6 Let no one enter the house of the LORD except the priests and ministering Levites. They may enter, for they are holy, but all the people shall keep the charge of the LORD.
2 Chronicles 23:7 The Levites shall surround the king, each with his weapons in his hand. And whoever enters the house shall be put to death. Be with the king when he comes in and when he goes out.”
2 Chronicles 23:8 The Levites and all Judah did according to all that Jehoiada the priest commanded, and they each brought his men, who were to go off duty on the Sabbath, with those who were to come on duty on the Sabbath, for Jehoiada the priest did not dismiss the divisions.
2 Chronicles 23:9 And Jehoiada the priest gave to the captains the spears and the large and small shields that had been King David's, which were in the house of God.
2 Chronicles 23:10 And he set all the people as a guard for the king, every man with his weapon in his hand, from the south side of the house to the north side of the house, around the altar and the house.
2 Chronicles 23:11 Then they brought out the king's son and put the crown on him and gave him “Long live the king.”
2 Chronicles 23:12 When Athaliah heard the noise of the people running and praising the king, she went into the house of the LORD to the people.
2 Chronicles 23:13 And when she looked, there was the king standing by his pillar at the entrance, and the captains and the trumpeters beside the king, and all the people of the land rejoicing and blowing trumpets, and the singers with their musical instruments leading in the celebration. And Athaliah tore her clothes and cried, “Treason! Treason!”
2 Chronicles 23:14 Then Jehoiada the priest brought out the captains who were set over the army, saying to them, “Bring her out between the ranks, and anyone who follows her is to be put to death with the sword.” For the priest said, “Do not put her to death in the house of the LORD.”
2 Chronicles 23:15 So they laid hands on her, the horse gate of the king's house, and they put her to death there.
2 Chronicles 23:16 And Jehoiada made a covenant between himself and all the people and the king that they should be the LORD's people.
2 Chronicles 23:17 Then all the people went to the house of Baal and tore it down; his altars and his images they broke in pieces, and they killed Mattan the priest of Baal before the altars.
2 Chronicles 23:18 And Jehoiada posted watchmen for the house of the LORD under the direction of according to the order of David.
2 Chronicles 23:19 He stationed the gatekeepers at the gates of the house of the LORD so that no one should enter who was in any way unclean.
2 Chronicles 23:20 And he took the captains, the nobles, the governors of the people, and all the people of the land, and they brought the king down from the house of the LORD, marching through the upper gate to the king's house. And they set the king on the royal throne.
2 Chronicles 23:21 So all the people of the land rejoiced, and the city was quiet after Athaliah had been put to death with the sword.
2 Chronicles 24:1   was seven years old when he began to reign, and he reigned forty years in Jerusalem. His mother's name was Zibiah of Beersheba.
2 Chronicles 24:2  And Joash did what was right in the eyes of the LORD all the days of Jehoiada the priest.
2 Chronicles 24:3 Jehoiada got for him two wives, and he had sons and daughters.
2 Chronicles 24:4 After this Joash restore the house of the LORD.
2 Chronicles 24:5 And he gathered the priests and the Levites and said to them, “Go out to the cities of Judah and gather from all Israel money to repair the house of your God from year to year, and see that you act quickly.” But the Levites did not act quickly.
2 Chronicles 24:6 So the king summoned Jehoiada the chief and said to him, “Why have you not required the Levites to bring in from Judah and Jerusalem the tent of testimony?”
2 Chronicles 24:7 For the dedicated things of the house of the LORD for the Baals.
2 Chronicles 24:8 So the king commanded, and they made a chest and set it outside the gate of the house of the LORD.
2 Chronicles 24:9 And the tax that Moses the servant of God laid on Israel in the wilderness.
2 Chronicles 24:10 And all the princes and all the people rejoiced and brought their tax and dropped it into the chest until they had finished.
2 Chronicles 24:11 And whenever the chest was brought to the king's officers by the Levites, when they saw that there was much money in it, the king's secretary and the officer of the chief priest would come and empty the chest and take it and return it to its place. Thus they did day after day, and collected money in abundance.
2 Chronicles 24:12 And the king and Jehoiada gave it to those who had charge of the work of the house of the LORD, and they hired masons and carpenters to restore the house of the LORD, and also workers in iron and bronze to repair the house of the LORD.
2 Chronicles 24:13 So those who were engaged in the work labored, and the repairing went forward in their hands, and they restored the house of God to its proper condition and strengthened it.
2 Chronicles 24:14 And when they had finished, they brought the rest of the money before the king and Jehoiada, and with it were made utensils for the house of the LORD, both for the service and for the burnt offerings, and dishes for incense and vessels of gold and silver. And they offered burnt offerings in the house of the LORD regularly all the days of Jehoiada.
2 Chronicles 24:15 But Jehoiada grew old and full of days, and died. He was 130 years old at his death.
2 Chronicles 24:16 And they buried him in the city of David among the kings, because he had done good in Israel, and toward God and his house.
2 Chronicles 24:17 Now after the death of Jehoiada the princes of Judah came and paid homage to the king. Then the king listened to them.
2 Chronicles 24:18 And they abandoned the house of the LORD, the God of their fathers, and served wrath came upon Judah and Jerusalem for this guilt of theirs.
2 Chronicles 24:19  These testified against them, but they would not pay attention.
2 Chronicles 24:20  Because you have forsaken the LORD, he has forsaken you.’”
2 Chronicles 24:21 But and by command of the king they stoned him with stones in the court of the house of the LORD.
2 Chronicles 24:22 Thus Joash the king did not remember the kindness that Jehoiada, Zechariah's father, had shown him, but killed his son. And when he was dying, he said, “May the LORD see
2 Chronicles 24:23 At the end of the year the army of the Syrians came up against Joash. They came to Judah and Jerusalem and destroyed all the princes of the people from among the people and sent all their spoil to the king of Damascus.
2 Chronicles 24:24 Though the army of the Syrians had come with few men, executed judgment on Joash.
2 Chronicles 24:25 When they had departed from him, leaving him but they did not bury him in the tombs of the kings.
2 Chronicles 24:26 Those who conspired against him were Zabad the son of Shimeath the Ammonite, and Jehozabad the son of Shimrith the Moabite.
2 Chronicles 24:27 Accounts of his sons and of the many oracles against him and of  of the Book of the Kings. And Amaziah his son reigned in his place.
2 Chronicles 25:1  Amaziah was twenty-five years old when he began to reign, and he reigned twenty-nine years in Jerusalem. His mother's name was Jehoaddan of Jerusalem.
2 Chronicles 25:2 And he did what was right in the eyes of the LORD, yet not with a whole heart.
2 Chronicles 25:3 And as soon as the royal power was firmly his, he killed his servants who had struck down the king his father.
2 Chronicles 25:4 But he did not put their children to death, according to what is written in the Law, in the Book of Moses, where the LORD commanded, “Fathers shall not die because of their children, nor children die because of their fathers, but each one shall die for his own sin.”
2 Chronicles 25:5 Then Amaziah assembled the men of Judah and set them by fathers' houses under commanders of thousands and of hundreds for all Judah and Benjamin. He mustered those able to handle spear and shield.
2 Chronicles 25:6 He hired also 100,000 mighty men of valor from Israel for 100 talents  of silver.
2 Chronicles 25:7 But a man of God came to him and said, “O king, do not let the army of Israel go with you, for the LORD is not with Israel, with all these Ephraimites.
2 Chronicles 25:8 But go, act, be strong for the battle. Why should you suppose that God will cast you down before the enemy? For God has power to help or to cast down.”
2 Chronicles 25:9 And Amaziah said to the man of God, “But what shall we do about the hundred talents that I have given to the army of Israel?” The man of God answered, “The LORD is able to give you much more than this.”
2 Chronicles 25:10 Then Amaziah discharged the army that had come to him from Ephraim to go home again. And they became very angry with Judah and returned home in fierce anger.
2 Chronicles 25:11 But Amaziah took courage and led out his people and went to the 10,000 men of Seir.
2 Chronicles 25:12 The men of Judah captured another 10,000 alive and took them to the top of a rock and threw them down from the top of the rock, and they were all dashed to pieces.
2 Chronicles 25:13 But the men of the army whom Amaziah sent back, not letting them go with him to battle, raided the cities of Judah, from Samaria to Beth-horon, and struck down 3,000 people in them and took much spoil.
2 Chronicles 25:14 After Amaziah came from striking down the Edomites, of the men of Seir and set them up as his gods and worshiped them, making offerings to them.
2 Chronicles 25:15 Therefore the LORD was angry with Amaziah and sent to him a prophet, who said to him, “Why have you sought the gods of a people who did not deliver their own people from your hand?”
2 Chronicles 25:16 But as he was speaking, the king said to him, “Have we made you a royal counselor? Stop! Why should you be struck down?” So the prophet stopped, but said, “I know that God has determined to destroy you, because you have done this and have not listened to my counsel.”
2 Chronicles 25:17  Then Amaziah king of Judah took counsel and sent to Joash the son of Jehoahaz, son of Jehu, king of Israel, saying, “Come, let us look one another in the face.”
2 Chronicles 25:18 And Joash the king of Israel sent word to Amaziah king of Judah, “A thistle on Lebanon sent to a cedar on Lebanon, saying, ‘Give your daughter to my son for a wife,’ and a wild beast of Lebanon passed by and trampled down the thistle.
2 Chronicles 25:19 You say, ‘See, I your heart has lifted you up in boastfulness. But now stay at home. Why should you provoke trouble so that you fall, you and Judah with you?”
2 Chronicles 25:20 But Amaziah would not listen, for it was of God, in order that he might give them into the hand of their enemies, because they had sought the gods of Edom.
2 Chronicles 25:21 So Joash king of Israel went up, and he and Amaziah king of Judah faced one another in battle at Beth-shemesh, which belongs to Judah.
2 Chronicles 25:22 And Judah was defeated by Israel, and every man fled to his home.
2 Chronicles 25:23 And Joash king of Israel captured Amaziah king of Judah, the son of Joash, son of the Ephraim Gate to the Corner Gate.
2 Chronicles 25:24 And he seized all the gold and silver, and all the vessels that were found in the house of God, in the care of Obed-edom. He seized also the treasuries of the king's house, also hostages, and he returned to Samaria.
2 Chronicles 25:25  Amaziah the son of Joash, king of Judah, lived fifteen years after the death of Joash the son of Jehoahaz, king of Israel.
2 Chronicles 25:26 Now the rest of the deeds of Amaziah, from first to last, are they not written in the Book of the Kings of Judah and Israel?
2 Chronicles 25:27 From the time when he turned away from the LORD they made a conspiracy against him in Jerusalem, and he fled to Lachish. But they sent after him to Lachish and put him to death there.
2 Chronicles 25:28 And they brought him upon horses, and he was buried with his fathers in the city of David.
2 Chronicles 26:1 And all the people of Judah took Uzziah, who was sixteen years old, and made him king instead of his father Amaziah.
2 Chronicles 26:2 He built Eloth and restored it to Judah, after the king slept with his fathers.
2 Chronicles 26:3 Uzziah was sixteen years old when he began to reign, and he reigned fifty-two years in Jerusalem. His mother's name was Jecoliah of Jerusalem.
2 Chronicles 26:4 And he did what was right in the eyes of the LORD, according to all that his father Amaziah had done.
2 Chronicles 26:5 He set himself to seek God who instructed him in the fear of God, and as long as he sought the LORD, God made him prosper.
2 Chronicles 26:6 He went out and made war against the Philistines and broke through the wall of Gath and the wall of Jabneh and the wall of Ashdod, and he built cities in the territory of Ashdod and elsewhere among the Philistines.
2 Chronicles 26:7 God helped him Meunites.
2 Chronicles 26:8 The Ammonites paid tribute to Uzziah, and his fame spread even to the border of Egypt, for he became very strong.
2 Chronicles 26:9 Moreover, Uzziah built towers in Jerusalem at the Angle, and fortified them.
2 Chronicles 26:10 And he built towers in the wilderness and cut out many cisterns, for he had large herds, both in the Shephelah and in the plain, and he had farmers and vinedressers in the hills and in the fertile lands, for he loved the soil.
2 Chronicles 26:11 Moreover, Uzziah had an army of soldiers, fit for war, in divisions according to the numbers in the muster made by Jeiel the secretary and Maaseiah the officer, under the direction of Hananiah, one of the king's commanders.
2 Chronicles 26:12 The whole number of the heads of fathers' houses of mighty men of valor was 2,600.
2 Chronicles 26:13 Under their command was an army of 307,500, who could make war with mighty power, to help the king against the enemy.
2 Chronicles 26:14 And Uzziah prepared for all the army shields, spears, helmets, coats of mail, bows, and stones for slinging.
2 Chronicles 26:15 In Jerusalem he made machines, invented by skillful men, to be on the towers and the corners, to shoot arrows and great stones. And his fame spread far, for he was marvelously helped, till he was strong.
2 Chronicles 26:16 But when he grew proud, to his destruction. For he was unfaithful to the LORD his God and entered the temple of the LORD to burn incense on the altar of incense.
2 Chronicles 26:17 But Azariah the priest went in after him, with eighty priests of the LORD who were men of valor,
2 Chronicles 26:18 and they withstood King Uzziah and said to him, but for the priests, the sons of Aaron, who are consecrated to burn incense. Go out of the sanctuary, for you have done wrong, and it will bring you no honor from the LORD God.”
2 Chronicles 26:19 Then Uzziah was angry. Now he had a censer in his hand to burn incense, and when he became angry with the priests,  broke out on his forehead in the presence of the priests in the house of the LORD, by the altar of incense.
2 Chronicles 26:20 And Azariah the chief priest and all the priests looked at him, and behold, he was leprous in his forehead! And they rushed him out quickly, and he himself hurried to go out, because the LORD had struck him.
2 Chronicles 26:21  in a separate house, for he was excluded from the house of the LORD. And Jotham his son was over the king's household, governing the people of the land.
2 Chronicles 26:22 Now the rest of the acts of Uzziah, from first to last, Isaiah the prophet the son of Amoz wrote.
2 Chronicles 26:23 And Uzziah slept with his fathers, and they buried him with his fathers in the burial field that belonged to the kings, for they said, “He is a leper.” And Jotham his son reigned in his place.
2 Chronicles 27:1  Jotham was twenty-five years old when he began to reign, and he reigned sixteen years in Jerusalem. His mother's name was Jerushah the daughter of Zadok.
2 Chronicles 27:2 And he did what was right in the eyes of the LORD according to all that his father Uzziah had done, except he did not enter the temple of the LORD. But the people still followed corrupt practices.
2 Chronicles 27:3 He built the upper gate of the house of the LORD and did much building on the wall of Ophel.
2 Chronicles 27:4 Moreover, he built cities in the hill country of Judah, and forts and towers on the wooded hills.
2 Chronicles 27:5 He fought with the king of the Ammonites and prevailed against them. And the Ammonites gave him that year 100 talents  of wheat and 10,000 of barley. The Ammonites paid him the same amount in the second and the third years.
2 Chronicles 27:6 So Jotham became mighty, because he ordered his ways before the LORD his God.
2 Chronicles 27:7  Now the rest of the acts of Jotham, and all his wars and his ways, behold, they are written in the Book of the Kings of Israel and Judah.
2 Chronicles 27:8 He was twenty-five years old when he began to reign, and he reigned sixteen years in Jerusalem.
2 Chronicles 27:9 And Jotham slept with his fathers, and they buried him in the city of David, and Ahaz his son reigned in his place.
2 Chronicles 28:1  Ahaz was twenty years old when he began to reign, and he reigned sixteen years in Jerusalem. And he did not do what was right in the eyes of the LORD, as his father David had done,
2 Chronicles 28:2 but he walked in the ways of the kings of Israel. He even made the Baals,
2 Chronicles 28:3 and the abominations of the nations whom the LORD drove out before the people of Israel.
2 Chronicles 28:4 And he sacrificed and made offerings on the high places and on the hills and under every green tree.
2 Chronicles 28:5  Therefore the LORD his God gave him into the hand of the king of Syria, who defeated him and took captive a great number of his people and brought them to Damascus. He was also given into the hand of the king of Israel, who struck him with great force.
2 Chronicles 28:6 For Pekah the son of Remaliah killed 120,000 from Judah in one day, all of them men of valor, because they had forsaken the LORD, the God of their fathers.
2 Chronicles 28:7 And Zichri, a mighty man of Ephraim, killed Maaseiah the king's son and Azrikam the commander of the palace and Elkanah the next in authority to the king.
2 Chronicles 28:8 The men of Israel took captive 200,000 of their relatives, women, sons, and daughters. They also took much spoil from them and brought the spoil to Samaria.
2 Chronicles 28:9 But a prophet of the LORD was there, whose name was Oded, and he went out to meet the army that came to Samaria and said to them, “Behold, because the LORD, the God of your fathers, that has reached up to heaven.
2 Chronicles 28:10 And now you intend to subjugate the people of Judah and Jerusalem, male and female, as your slaves. Have you not sins of your own against the LORD your God?
2 Chronicles 28:11 Now hear me, and send back the captives from your relatives whom you have taken, for the fierce wrath of the LORD is upon you.”
2 Chronicles 28:12 Certain chiefs also of the men of Ephraim, Azariah the son of Johanan, Berechiah the son of Meshillemoth, Jehizkiah the son of Shallum, and Amasa the son of Hadlai, stood up against those who were coming from the war
2 Chronicles 28:13 and said to them, “You shall not bring the captives in here, for you propose to bring upon us guilt against the LORD in addition to our present sins and guilt. For our guilt is already great, and there is fierce wrath against Israel.”
2 Chronicles 28:14 So the armed men left the captives and the spoil before the princes and all the assembly.
2 Chronicles 28:15 And the city of palm trees. Then they returned to Samaria.
2 Chronicles 28:16   of Assyria for help.
2 Chronicles 28:17 For the Edomites had again invaded and defeated Judah and carried away captives.
2 Chronicles 28:18  with its villages, Timnah with its villages, and Gimzo with its villages. And they settled there.
2 Chronicles 28:19 For the LORD humbled Judah because of Ahaz king of Israel, for he had made  and had been very unfaithful to the LORD.
2 Chronicles 28:20 So  king of Assyria came against him and afflicted him instead of strengthening him.
2 Chronicles 28:21  For Ahaz took a portion from the house of the LORD and the house of the king and of the princes, and gave tribute to the king of Assyria, but it did not help him.
2 Chronicles 28:22 In the time of his distress he became yet more faithless to the LORD — this same King Ahaz.
2 Chronicles 28:23 For “Because the gods of the kings of Syria helped them, I will sacrifice to them that they may help me.” But they were the ruin of him and of all Israel.
2 Chronicles 28:24 And Ahaz gathered together the vessels of the house of God and altars in every corner of Jerusalem.
2 Chronicles 28:25 In every city of Judah he made high places to make offerings to other gods, provoking to anger the LORD, the God of his fathers.
2 Chronicles 28:26  Now the rest of his acts and all his ways, from first to last, behold, they are written in the Book of the Kings of Judah and Israel.
2 Chronicles 28:27 And Ahaz slept with his fathers, and they buried him in the city, in Jerusalem, for they did not bring him into the tombs of the kings of Israel. And Hezekiah his son reigned in his place.
2 Chronicles 29:1  Zechariah.
2 Chronicles 29:2 And he did what was right in the eyes of the LORD, according to all that David his father had done.
2 Chronicles 29:3 In the first year of his reign, in the first month, he opened the doors of the house of the LORD and repaired them.
2 Chronicles 29:4 He brought in the priests and the Levites and assembled them in the square on the east
2 Chronicles 29:5 and said to them, “Hear me, Levites! Now  from the Holy Place.
2 Chronicles 29:6 For our fathers have been unfaithful and have done what was evil in the sight of the LORD our God. They have forsaken him and have turned away their faces from the habitation of the LORD and turned their backs.
2 Chronicles 29:7 They also shut the doors of the vestibule and put out the lamps and have not burned incense or offered burnt offerings in the Holy Place to the God of Israel.
2 Chronicles 29:8 Therefore and of hissing, as you see with your own eyes.
2 Chronicles 29:9 For behold, our fathers have fallen by the sword, and our sons and our daughters and our wives are in captivity for this.
2 Chronicles 29:10 Now to make a covenant with the LORD, the God of Israel, in order that his fierce anger may turn away from us.
2 Chronicles 29:11 My sons, do not now be negligent, for the LORD has chosen you to stand in his presence, to minister to him and to be his ministers and make offerings to him.”
2 Chronicles 29:12 Then the Levites arose, Gershonites, Joah the son of Zimmah, and Eden the son of Joah;
2 Chronicles 29:13 and of the sons of Asaph, Zechariah and Mattaniah;
2 Chronicles 29:14 and of the sons of Jeduthun, Shemaiah and Uzziel.
2 Chronicles 29:15 They gathered their brothers and to cleanse the house of the LORD.
2 Chronicles 29:16 The priests went into the inner part of the house of the LORD to cleanse it, and they brought out all the uncleanness that they found in the temple of the LORD into the court of the house of the LORD. And the Levites took it and carried it out to the brook Kidron.
2 Chronicles 29:17 They began to consecrate on the first day of the first month, and on the eighth day of the month they came to the vestibule of the LORD. Then for eight days they consecrated the house of the LORD, and on the sixteenth day of the first month they finished.
2 Chronicles 29:18 Then they went in to Hezekiah the king and said, “We have cleansed all the house of the LORD, the altar of burnt offering and all its utensils, and the table for the showbread and all its utensils.
2 Chronicles 29:19 All the utensils that King Ahaz discarded in his reign when he was faithless, we have made ready and consecrated, and behold, they are before the altar of the LORD.”
2 Chronicles 29:20 Then Hezekiah the king rose early and gathered the officials of the city and went up to the house of the LORD.
2 Chronicles 29:21 And they brought seven bulls, seven rams, seven lambs, and seven male goats for a sin offering for the kingdom and for the sanctuary and for Judah. And he commanded the priests, the sons of Aaron, to offer them on the altar of the LORD.
2 Chronicles 29:22 So they slaughtered the bulls, and the priests received the blood and threw it against the altar. And they slaughtered the rams, and their blood was thrown against the altar. And they slaughtered the lambs, and their blood was thrown against the altar.
2 Chronicles 29:23 Then the goats for the sin offering were brought to the king and the assembly, and they laid their hands on them,
2 Chronicles 29:24 and the priests slaughtered them and made a sin offering with their blood on the altar, to make atonement for all Israel. For the king commanded that the burnt offering and the sin offering should be made for all Israel.
2 Chronicles 29:25  Nathan the prophet, for the commandment was from the LORD through his prophets.
2 Chronicles 29:26 The Levites stood with and the priests with the trumpets.
2 Chronicles 29:27 Then Hezekiah commanded that the burnt offering be offered on the altar. And when the burnt offering began, the song to the LORD began also, and the trumpets, accompanied by the instruments of David king of Israel.
2 Chronicles 29:28 The whole assembly worshiped, and the singers sang, and the trumpeters sounded. All this continued until the burnt offering was finished.
2 Chronicles 29:29 When the offering was finished, the king and all who were present with him bowed themselves and worshiped.
2 Chronicles 29:30 And Hezekiah the king and the officials commanded the Levites to sing praises to the LORD with the words of David and of Asaph the seer. And they sang praises with gladness, and they bowed down and worshiped.
2 Chronicles 29:31 Then Hezekiah said, of a willing heart brought burnt offerings.
2 Chronicles 29:32 The number of the burnt offerings that the assembly brought was 70 bulls, 100 rams, and 200 lambs; all these were for a burnt offering to the LORD.
2 Chronicles 29:33 And the consecrated offerings were 600 bulls and 3,000 sheep.
2 Chronicles 29:34 But the priests were too few and could not flay all the burnt offerings, so until other priests had consecrated themselves, for the Levites were more upright in heart than the priests in consecrating themselves.
2 Chronicles 29:35 Besides the great number of burnt offerings, there was the drink offerings for the burnt offerings. Thus the service of the house of the LORD was restored.
2 Chronicles 29:36 And Hezekiah and all the people rejoiced because God had provided for the people, for the thing came about suddenly.
2 Chronicles 30:1 Hezekiah sent to all Israel and Judah, and wrote letters also to Ephraim and Manasseh, that they should come to the house of the LORD at Jerusalem to keep the Passover to the LORD, the God of Israel.
2 Chronicles 30:2 For the king and his princes and all the assembly in Jerusalem had taken counsel to keep the Passover in the second month —
2 Chronicles 30:3 for they could not keep it because the priests had not consecrated themselves in sufficient number, nor had the people assembled in Jerusalem —
2 Chronicles 30:4 and the plan seemed right to the king and all the assembly.
2 Chronicles 30:5 So they decreed to make a proclamation throughout all Israel, from Beersheba to Dan, that the people should come and keep the Passover to the LORD, the God of Israel, at Jerusalem, for they had not kept it as often as prescribed.
2 Chronicles 30:6  the kings of Assyria.
2 Chronicles 30:7  Do not be like your fathers and your brothers, who were faithless to the LORD God of their fathers, so that he made them a desolation, as you see.
2 Chronicles 30:8  that his fierce anger may turn away from you.
2 Chronicles 30:9 For if you return to him.”
2 Chronicles 30:10  they laughed them to scorn and mocked them.
2 Chronicles 30:11 However, some men of Asher, of Manasseh, and of Zebulun humbled themselves and came to Jerusalem.
2 Chronicles 30:12 The hand of God was also on Judah to give them one heart to do what the king and the princes commanded by the word of the LORD.
2 Chronicles 30:13 And many people came together in Jerusalem to keep the Feast of Unleavened Bread in the second month, a very great assembly.
2 Chronicles 30:14 They set to work and removed and threw into the brook Kidron.
2 Chronicles 30:15  so that they consecrated themselves and brought burnt offerings into the house of the LORD.
2 Chronicles 30:16  the man of God. The priests threw the blood that they received from the hand of the Levites.
2 Chronicles 30:17 For there were many in the assembly who had not consecrated themselves. Therefore the Levites had to slaughter the Passover lamb for everyone who was not clean, to consecrate it to the LORD.
2 Chronicles 30:18 For a majority of the people, than as prescribed. For Hezekiah had prayed for them, saying, “May the good LORD pardon everyone
2 Chronicles 30:19
2 Chronicles 30:20 And the LORD heard Hezekiah and healed the people.
2 Chronicles 30:21 And the people of Israel who were present at Jerusalem kept  to the LORD.
2 Chronicles 30:22 And Hezekiah spoke peace offerings and giving thanks to the LORD, the God of their fathers.
2 Chronicles 30:23 Then the whole assembly agreed together to keep the feast for another seven days. So they kept it for another seven days with gladness.
2 Chronicles 30:24 For Hezekiah king of Judah consecrated themselves in great numbers.
2 Chronicles 30:25 The whole assembly of Judah, and the priests and the Levites, and the whole assembly that came out of Israel, and the sojourners who came out of the land of Israel, and the sojourners who lived in Judah, rejoiced.
2 Chronicles 30:26 So there was great joy in Jerusalem, for since the time of Solomon the son of David king of Israel there had been nothing like this in Jerusalem.
2 Chronicles 30:27 Then his holy habitation in heaven.
2 Chronicles 31:1 Now when all this was finished, all Israel who were present went out to the cities of Judah and the Asherim and broke down the high places and the altars throughout all Judah and Benjamin, and in Ephraim and Manasseh, until they had destroyed them all. Then all the people of Israel returned to their cities, every man to his possession.
2 Chronicles 31:2 And Hezekiah appointed for burnt offerings and peace offerings, to minister in the gates of the camp of the LORD and to give thanks and praise.
2 Chronicles 31:3  as it is written in the Law of the LORD.
2 Chronicles 31:4 And he commanded the people who lived in Jerusalem to give the portion due to the priests and the Levites, that they might give themselves to the Law of the LORD.
2 Chronicles 31:5 As soon as the command was spread abroad, the people of Israel gave in abundance the firstfruits of grain, wine, oil, honey, and of all the produce of the field. And they brought in abundantly the tithe of everything.
2 Chronicles 31:6 And the people of Israel and Judah who lived in the cities of Judah also brought in the tithe of cattle and sheep, and the tithe of the dedicated things that had been dedicated to the LORD their God, and laid them in heaps.
2 Chronicles 31:7 In the third month they began to pile up the heaps, and finished them in the seventh month.
2 Chronicles 31:8 When Hezekiah and the princes came and saw the heaps, they blessed the LORD and his people Israel.
2 Chronicles 31:9 And Hezekiah questioned the priests and the Levites about the heaps.
2 Chronicles 31:10 Azariah the chief priest, who was for the LORD has blessed his people, so that we have this large amount left.”
2 Chronicles 31:11 Then Hezekiah commanded them to prepare chambers in the house of the LORD, and they prepared them.
2 Chronicles 31:12 And they faithfully brought in the contributions, the tithes, and the dedicated things. The chief officer Shimei his brother as second,
2 Chronicles 31:13  Azariah the chief officer of the house of God.
2 Chronicles 31:14 And Kore the son of Imnah the Levite, keeper of the east gate, was over the freewill offerings to God, to apportion the contribution reserved for the LORD and the most holy offerings.
2 Chronicles 31:15  the cities of the priests, to distribute the portions to their brothers, old and young alike, by divisions,
2 Chronicles 31:16 except those enrolled by genealogy, males from three years old and upward — all who entered the house of the LORD as the duty of each day required — for their service according to their offices, by their divisions.
2 Chronicles 31:17 The enrollment of the priests was according to their fathers' houses; that of the Levites from twenty years old and upward was according to their offices, by their divisions.
2 Chronicles 31:18 They were enrolled with all their little children, their wives, their sons, and their daughters, the whole assembly, for they were faithful in keeping themselves holy.
2 Chronicles 31:19 And for the sons of Aaron, the priests, who were in the fields of common land belonging to their cities, there were men in the several cities who were designated by name to distribute portions to every male among the priests and to everyone among the Levites who was enrolled.
2 Chronicles 31:20 Thus Hezekiah did throughout all Judah, and he did what was good and right and faithful before the LORD his God.
2 Chronicles 31:21 And every work that he undertook in the service of the house of God and in accordance with the law and the commandments, seeking his God, he did with all his heart, and prospered.
2 Chronicles 32:1  After these things and these acts of faithfulness, Sennacherib king of Assyria came and invaded Judah and encamped against the fortified cities, thinking to win them for himself.
2 Chronicles 32:2 And when Hezekiah saw that Sennacherib had come and intended to fight against Jerusalem,
2 Chronicles 32:3 he planned with his officers and his mighty men to stop the water of the springs that were outside the city; and they helped him.
2 Chronicles 32:4 A great many people were gathered, and they stopped all the springs and the brook that flowed through the land, saying, “Why should the kings of Assyria come and find much water?”
2 Chronicles 32:5 He set to work resolutely and built up Millo in the city of David. He also made weapons and shields in abundance.
2 Chronicles 32:6 And he set combat commanders over the people and gathered them together to him in the square at the gate of the city and spoke encouragingly to them, saying,
2 Chronicles 32:7  for there are more with us than with him.
2 Chronicles 32:8 With him is but with us is the LORD our God, to help us and to fight our battles.” And the people took confidence from the words of Hezekiah king of Judah.
2 Chronicles 32:9 After this, Sennacherib king of Assyria, who was besieging Lachish with all his forces, sent his servants to Jerusalem to Hezekiah king of Judah and to all the people of Judah who were in Jerusalem, saying,
2 Chronicles 32:10 “Thus says Sennacherib king of Assyria, ‘On what are you trusting, that you endure the siege in Jerusalem?
2 Chronicles 32:11 Is not Hezekiah misleading you, that he may give you over to die by famine and by thirst, when he tells you, “The LORD our God will deliver us from the hand of the king of Assyria”?
2 Chronicles 32:12  Has not this same Hezekiah taken away his high places and his altars and commanded Judah and Jerusalem, “Before one altar you shall worship, and on it you shall burn your sacrifices”?
2 Chronicles 32:13 Do you not know what I and my fathers have done to all the peoples of other lands? Were the gods of the nations of those lands at all able to deliver their lands out of my hand?
2 Chronicles 32:14 Who among all the gods of those nations that my fathers devoted to destruction was able to deliver his people from my hand, that your God should be able to deliver you from my hand?
2 Chronicles 32:15 Now, therefore, do not let Hezekiah deceive you or mislead you in this fashion, and do not believe him, for no god of any nation or kingdom has been able to deliver his people from my hand or from the hand of my fathers. How much less will your God deliver you out of my hand!’”
2 Chronicles 32:16 And his servants said still more against the LORD God and against his servant Hezekiah.
2 Chronicles 32:17 And he wrote letters to cast contempt on the LORD, the God of Israel, and to speak against him, saying, “Like the gods of the nations of the lands who have not delivered their people from my hands, so the God of Hezekiah will not deliver his people from my hand.”
2 Chronicles 32:18 And they shouted it with a loud voice in the language of Judah to the people of Jerusalem who were on the wall, to frighten and terrify them, in order that they might take the city.
2 Chronicles 32:19 And they spoke of the God of Jerusalem as they spoke of the gods of the peoples of the earth, which are the work of men's hands.
2 Chronicles 32:20 Then Hezekiah the king and Isaiah the prophet, the son of Amoz, prayed because of this and cried to heaven.
2 Chronicles 32:21 And the LORD sent an angel, who cut off all the mighty warriors and commanders and officers in the camp of the king of Assyria. So he returned with shame of face to his own land. And when he came into the house of his god, some of his own sons struck him down there with the sword.
2 Chronicles 32:22 So the LORD saved Hezekiah and the inhabitants of Jerusalem from the hand of Sennacherib king of Assyria and from the hand of all his enemies, and he provided for them on every side.
2 Chronicles 32:23 And many brought gifts to the LORD to Jerusalem and precious things to Hezekiah king of Judah, so that he was exalted in the sight of all nations from that time onward.
2 Chronicles 32:24  In those days Hezekiah became sick and was at the point of death, and he prayed to the LORD, and he answered him and gave him a sign.
2 Chronicles 32:25 But Hezekiah wrath came upon him and Judah and Jerusalem.
2 Chronicles 32:26 But Hezekiah humbled himself for the pride of his heart, both he and the inhabitants of Jerusalem, so that the wrath of the LORD did not come upon them in the days of Hezekiah.
2 Chronicles 32:27 And Hezekiah had very great riches and honor, and he made for himself treasuries for silver, for gold, for precious stones, for spices, for shields, and for all kinds of costly vessels;
2 Chronicles 32:28 storehouses also for the yield of grain, wine, and oil; and stalls for all kinds of cattle, and sheepfolds.
2 Chronicles 32:29 He likewise provided cities for himself, and flocks and herds in abundance, for God had given him very great possessions.
2 Chronicles 32:30 This same Hezekiah Gihon and directed them down to the west side of the city of David. And Hezekiah prospered in all his works.
2 Chronicles 32:31 And so in the matter of the envoys of the princes of Babylon, in order to test him and to know all that was in his heart.
2 Chronicles 32:32 Now the rest of the acts of Hezekiah and his good deeds, behold, they are written in the Book of the Kings of Judah and Israel.
2 Chronicles 32:33 And Hezekiah slept with his fathers, and they buried him in the upper part of the tombs of the sons of David, and all Judah and the inhabitants of Jerusalem did him honor at his death. And Manasseh his son reigned in his place.
2 Chronicles 33:1  Manasseh was twelve years old when he began to reign, and he reigned fifty-five years in Jerusalem.
2 Chronicles 33:2 And he did what was evil in the sight of the LORD, according to the abominations of the nations whom the LORD drove out before the people of Israel.
2 Chronicles 33:3 For he rebuilt the high places Asheroth, and worshiped all the host of heaven and served them.
2 Chronicles 33:4 And he built altars in the house of the LORD, of which the LORD had said, “In Jerusalem shall my name be forever.”
2 Chronicles 33:5 And he built altars for all the host of heaven in the two courts of the house of the LORD.
2 Chronicles 33:6  mediums and with necromancers. He did much evil in the sight of the LORD, provoking him to anger.
2 Chronicles 33:7 And I will put my name forever,
2 Chronicles 33:8 and I will no more remove the foot of Israel from the land that I appointed for your fathers, if only they will be careful to do all that I have commanded them, all the law, the statutes, and the rules given through Moses.”
2 Chronicles 33:9 Manasseh led Judah and the inhabitants of Jerusalem astray, to do more evil than the nations whom the LORD destroyed before the people of Israel.
2 Chronicles 33:10 The LORD spoke to Manasseh and to his people, but they paid no attention.
2 Chronicles 33:11  bound him with chains of bronze and brought him to Babylon.
2 Chronicles 33:12 And when he was in distress, he entreated the favor of the LORD his God and humbled himself greatly before the God of his fathers.
2 Chronicles 33:13 He prayed to him, and Then Manasseh knew that the LORD was God.
2 Chronicles 33:14 Afterward he built an outer wall for the city of David west of Ophel, and raised it to a very great height. He also put commanders of the army in all the fortified cities in Judah.
2 Chronicles 33:15 And he took away the foreign gods and the idol from the house of the LORD, and all the altars that he had built on the mountain of the house of the LORD and in Jerusalem, and he threw them outside of the city.
2 Chronicles 33:16 He also restored the altar of the LORD and offered on it sacrifices of peace offerings and of thanksgiving, and he commanded Judah to serve the LORD, the God of Israel.
2 Chronicles 33:17  Nevertheless, the people still sacrificed at the high places, but only to the LORD their God.
2 Chronicles 33:18 Now the rest of the acts of Manasseh, and Chronicles of the Kings of Israel.
2 Chronicles 33:19 And his prayer, and how
2 Chronicles 33:20 So Manasseh slept with his fathers, and they buried him in his house, and Amon his son reigned in his place.
2 Chronicles 33:21  Amon was twenty-two years old when he began to reign, and he reigned two years in Jerusalem.
2 Chronicles 33:22 And he did what was evil in the sight of the LORD, as Manasseh his father had done. Amon sacrificed to all the images that Manasseh his father had made, and served them.
2 Chronicles 33:23 And he did not humble himself before the LORD, as Manasseh his father had humbled himself, but this Amon incurred guilt more and more.
2 Chronicles 33:24 And his servants conspired against him and put him to death in his house.
2 Chronicles 33:25 But the people of the land struck down all those who had conspired against King Amon. And the people of the land made Josiah his son king in his place.
2 Chronicles 34:1  Josiah was eight years old when he began to reign, and he reigned thirty-one years in Jerusalem.
2 Chronicles 34:2 And he did what was right in the eyes of the LORD, and walked in the ways of David his father; and he did not turn aside to the right hand or to the left.
2 Chronicles 34:3 For in the eighth year of his reign, while he was yet a boy, he began to seek the God of David his father, and in the twelfth year he began to purge Judah and Jerusalem of the high places, the Asherim, and the carved and the metal images.
2 Chronicles 34:4 And they chopped down the altars of the Baals in his presence, and he cut down the scattered it over the graves of those who had sacrificed to them.
2 Chronicles 34:5  He also burned the bones of the priests on their altars and cleansed Judah and Jerusalem.
2 Chronicles 34:6 And in the  all around,
2 Chronicles 34:7 he broke down the altars and beat the into powder and cut down all the incense altars throughout all the land of Israel. Then he returned to Jerusalem.
2 Chronicles 34:8  the recorder, to repair the house of the LORD his God.
2 Chronicles 34:9 They came to Manasseh and Ephraim and from all the remnant of Israel and from all Judah and Benjamin and from the inhabitants of Jerusalem.
2 Chronicles 34:10 And they gave it to the workmen who were working in the house of the LORD. And the workmen who were working in the house of the LORD gave it for repairing and restoring the house.
2 Chronicles 34:11 They gave it to the carpenters and the builders to buy quarried stone, and timber for binders and beams for the buildings that the kings of Judah had let go to ruin.
2 Chronicles 34:12 And the men did the work faithfully. Over them were set Jahath and Obadiah the Levites, of the sons of Merari, and Zechariah and Meshullam, of the sons of the Kohathites, to have oversight. The Levites, all who were skillful with instruments of music,
2 Chronicles 34:13 were over the burden-bearers and directed all who did work in every kind of service, and some of the Levites were scribes and officials and gatekeepers.
2 Chronicles 34:14 While they were bringing out the money that had been brought into the house of the LORD,  Moses.
2 Chronicles 34:15 Then Hilkiah answered and said to Shaphan the secretary, “I have found the Book of the Law in the house of the LORD.” And Hilkiah gave the book to Shaphan.
2 Chronicles 34:16 Shaphan brought the book to the king, and further reported to the king, “All that was committed to your servants they are doing.
2 Chronicles 34:17 They have emptied out the money that was found in the house of the LORD and have given it into the hand of the overseers and the workmen.”
2 Chronicles 34:18 Then Shaphan the secretary told the king, “Hilkiah the priest has given me a book.” And Shaphan read from it before the king.
2 Chronicles 34:19 And when the king heard the words of the Law, he tore his clothes.
2 Chronicles 34:20 And the king commanded Hilkiah, Ahikam the son of Shaphan, Abdon the son of Micah, Shaphan the secretary, and Asaiah the king's servant, saying,
2 Chronicles 34:21 “Go, inquire of the LORD for me and for those who are left in Israel and in Judah, concerning the words of the book that has been found. For great is the wrath of the LORD that is poured out on us, because our fathers have not kept the word of the LORD, to do according to all that is written in this book.”
2 Chronicles 34:22 So Hilkiah and those whom the king had sent  went to Huldah the prophetess, the wife of Shallum the son of Tokhath, son of Hasrah, keeper of the wardrobe (now she lived in Jerusalem in the Second Quarter) and spoke to her to that effect.
2 Chronicles 34:23 And she said to them, “Thus says the LORD, the God of Israel: ‘Tell the man who sent you to me,
2 Chronicles 34:24 Thus says the LORD, Behold, I will bring disaster upon this place and upon its inhabitants, all the curses that are written in the book that was read before the king of Judah.
2 Chronicles 34:25 Because they have forsaken me and my wrath will be poured out on this place and will not be quenched.
2 Chronicles 34:26 But to the king of Judah, who sent you to inquire of the LORD, thus shall you say to him, Thus says the LORD, the God of Israel: Regarding the words that you have heard,
2 Chronicles 34:27 because your heart was tender and you humbled yourself before God when you heard his words against this place and its inhabitants, and you have humbled yourself before me and have torn your clothes and wept before me, I also have heard you, declares the LORD.
2 Chronicles 34:28 Behold, I will gather you to your fathers, and you shall be gathered to your grave in peace, and your eyes shall not see all the disaster that I will bring upon this place and its inhabitants.’” And they brought back word to the king.
2 Chronicles 34:29  Then the king sent and gathered together all the elders of Judah and Jerusalem.
2 Chronicles 34:30 And the king went up to the house of the LORD, with all the men of Judah and the inhabitants of Jerusalem and the priests and the Levites, all the people both great and small. And he read in their hearing all the words of the Book of the Covenant that had been found in the house of the LORD.
2 Chronicles 34:31 And the king and made a covenant before the LORD, to walk after the LORD and to keep his commandments and his testimonies and his statutes, with all his heart and all his soul, to perform the words of the covenant that were written in this book.
2 Chronicles 34:32 Then he made all who were present in Jerusalem and in Benjamin join in it. And the inhabitants of Jerusalem did according to the covenant of God, the God of their fathers.
2 Chronicles 34:33 And Josiah took away all the abominations from all the territory that belonged to the people of Israel and made all who were present in Israel serve the LORD their God. All his days they did not turn away from following the LORD, the God of their fathers.
2 Chronicles 35:1  on the fourteenth day of the first month.
2 Chronicles 35:2 He appointed the priests to their offices and encouraged them in the service of the house of the LORD.
2 Chronicles 35:3 And he said to the Levites who taught all Israel and who were holy to the LORD, “Put the holy ark in the house that Solomon the son of David, king of Israel, built. You need not carry it on your shoulders. Now serve the LORD your God and his people Israel.
2 Chronicles 35:4 Prepare yourselves and the document of Solomon his son.
2 Chronicles 35:5 And according to the groupings of the fathers' houses of your brothers the lay people, and according to the division of the Levites by fathers' household.
2 Chronicles 35:6 And slaughter the Passover lamb, and  Moses.”
2 Chronicles 35:7 Then Josiah contributed to the lay people, as Passover offerings for all who were present, lambs and young goats from the flock to the number of 30,000, and 3,000 bulls; these were from the king's possessions.
2 Chronicles 35:8 And his officials contributed willingly to the people, to the priests, and to the Levites. Hilkiah, Zechariah, and Jehiel, the chief officers of the house of God, gave to the priests for the Passover offerings 2,600 Passover lambs and 300 bulls.
2 Chronicles 35:9 Conaniah also, and Shemaiah and Nethanel his brothers, and Hashabiah and Jeiel and Jozabad, the chiefs of the Levites, gave to the Levites for the Passover offerings 5,000 lambs and young goats and 500 bulls.
2 Chronicles 35:10 When the service had been prepared for, the priests and the Levites in their divisions according to the king's command.
2 Chronicles 35:11  while the Levites flayed the sacrifices.
2 Chronicles 35:12 And they set aside the burnt offerings that they might distribute them according to the groupings of the fathers' houses of the lay people, to offer to the LORD, as it is written in the Book of Moses. And so they did with the bulls.
2 Chronicles 35:13  boiled the holy offerings in pots, in cauldrons, and in pans, and carried them quickly to all the lay people.
2 Chronicles 35:14 And afterward they prepared for themselves and for the priests, because the priests, the sons of Aaron, were offering the burnt offerings and the fat parts until night; so the Levites prepared for themselves and for the priests, the sons of Aaron.
2 Chronicles 35:15 The singers, the sons of Asaph, were in their place and the gatekeepers were at each gate. They did not need to depart from their service, for their brothers the Levites prepared for them.
2 Chronicles 35:16 So all the service of the LORD was prepared that day, to keep the Passover and to offer burnt offerings on the altar of the LORD, according to the command of King Josiah.
2 Chronicles 35:17 And the people of Israel who were present kept the Passover at that time, and the Feast of Unleavened Bread seven days.
2 Chronicles 35:18  No Passover like it had been kept in Israel since the days of Samuel the prophet. None of the kings of Israel had kept such a Passover as was kept by Josiah, and the priests and the Levites, and all Judah and Israel who were present, and the inhabitants of Jerusalem.
2 Chronicles 35:19 In the eighteenth year of the reign of Josiah this Passover was kept.
2 Chronicles 35:20  Carchemish on the Euphrates, and Josiah went out to meet him.
2 Chronicles 35:21 But he sent envoys to him, saying, “What have we to do with each other, king of Judah? I am not coming against you this day, but against the house with which I am at war. And God has commanded me to hurry. Cease opposing God, who is with me, lest he destroy you.”
2 Chronicles 35:22 Nevertheless, Josiah did not turn away from him, but Megiddo.
2 Chronicles 35:23 And the archers shot King Josiah. And the king said to his servants, “Take me away, for I am badly wounded.”
2 Chronicles 35:24 So his servants took him out of the chariot and carried him in his second chariot and brought him to Jerusalem. And he died and was buried in the tombs of his fathers. All Judah and Jerusalem mourned for Josiah.
2 Chronicles 35:25  the singing men and singing women have spoken of Josiah in their laments to this day. They made these a rule in Israel; behold, they are written in the Laments.
2 Chronicles 35:26 Now the rest of the acts of Josiah, and his good deeds according to what is written in the Law of the LORD,
2 Chronicles 35:27 and his acts, first and last, behold, they are written in the Book of the Kings of Israel and Judah.
2 Chronicles 36:1  The people of the land took Jehoahaz the son of Josiah and made him king in his father's place in Jerusalem.
2 Chronicles 36:2 Jehoahaz was twenty-three years old when he began to reign, and he reigned three months in Jerusalem.
2 Chronicles 36:3 Then the king of Egypt deposed him in Jerusalem and  of gold.
2 Chronicles 36:4 And the king of Egypt made Eliakim his brother king over Judah and Jerusalem, and changed his name to Jehoiakim. But Neco took Jehoahaz his brother and carried him to Egypt.
2 Chronicles 36:5  Jehoiakim was twenty-five years old when he began to reign, and he reigned eleven years in Jerusalem. He did what was evil in the sight of the LORD his God.
2 Chronicles 36:6  to take him to Babylon.
2 Chronicles 36:7  Nebuchadnezzar also carried part of the vessels of the house of the LORD to Babylon and put them in his palace in Babylon.
2 Chronicles 36:8  Now the rest of the acts of Jehoiakim, and the abominations that he did, and what was found against him, behold, they are written in the Book of the Kings of Israel and Judah. And Jehoiachin his son reigned in his place.
2 Chronicles 36:9   years old when he became king, and he reigned three months and ten days in Jerusalem. He did what was evil in the sight of the LORD.
2 Chronicles 36:10 In Zedekiah king over Judah and Jerusalem.
2 Chronicles 36:11  Zedekiah was twenty-one years old when he began to reign, and he reigned eleven years in Jerusalem.
2 Chronicles 36:12 He did what was evil in the sight of the LORD his God. He did not humble himself before Jeremiah the prophet, who spoke from the mouth of the LORD.
2 Chronicles 36:13  He stiffened his neck and hardened his heart against turning to the LORD, the God of Israel.
2 Chronicles 36:14 All the officers of the priests and the people likewise were exceedingly unfaithful, following all the abominations of the nations. And they polluted the house of the LORD that he had made holy in Jerusalem.
2 Chronicles 36:15 The LORD, the God of their fathers, sent persistently to them by his messengers, because he had compassion on his people and on his dwelling place.
2 Chronicles 36:16  until the wrath of the LORD rose against his people, until there was no remedy.
2 Chronicles 36:17  Therefore he brought up against them the king of the Chaldeans, who killed their young men with the sword in the house of their sanctuary and had no compassion on young man or virgin, old man or aged. He gave them all into his hand.
2 Chronicles 36:18  And all the vessels of the house of God, great and small, and the treasures of the house of the LORD, and the treasures of the king and of his princes, all these he brought to Babylon.
2 Chronicles 36:19  And they burned the house of God and broke down the wall of Jerusalem and burned all its palaces with fire and destroyed all its precious vessels.
2 Chronicles 36:20 He and they became servants to him and to his sons until the establishment of the kingdom of Persia,
2 Chronicles 36:21 to fulfill the word of the LORD by the mouth of Jeremiah, until the land had it kept Sabbath, to fulfill seventy years.
2 Chronicles 36:22  the LORD stirred up the spirit of Cyrus king of Persia, so that he made a proclamation throughout all his kingdom and also put it in writing:
2 Chronicles 36:23 “Thus says Cyrus king of Persia, ‘The LORD, the God of heaven, has given me all the kingdoms of the earth, and he has charged me to build him a house at Jerusalem, which is in Judah. Whoever is among you of all his people, may the LORD his God be with him. Let him go up.’”
Ezra 1:1  that he made a proclamation throughout all his kingdom and also put it in writing:
Ezra 1:2 “Thus says Cyrus king of Persia: The LORD, the God of heaven, has given me all the kingdoms of the earth, and he has charged me to build him a house at Jerusalem, which is in Judah.
Ezra 1:3 Whoever is among you of all his people, may his God be with him, and let him go up to Jerusalem, which is in Judah, and rebuild the house of the LORD, the God of Israel — he is the God who is in Jerusalem.
Ezra 1:4 And let each survivor, in whatever place he sojourns, be assisted by the men of his place with silver and gold, with goods and with beasts, besides freewill offerings for the house of God that is in Jerusalem.”
Ezra 1:5 Then rose up the heads of the fathers' houses of Judah and Benjamin, and the priests and the Levites, God had stirred to go up to rebuild the house of the LORD that is in Jerusalem.
Ezra 1:6 And all who were about them aided them with vessels of silver, with gold, with goods, with beasts, and with costly wares, besides all that was freely offered.
Ezra 1:7  Nebuchadnezzar had carried away from Jerusalem and placed in the house of his gods.
Ezra 1:8 Cyrus king of Persia brought these out in the charge of Sheshbazzar the prince of Judah.
Ezra 1:9 And this was the number of them: 30 basins of gold, 1,000 basins of silver, 29 censers,
Ezra 1:10 30 bowls of gold, 410 bowls of silver, and 1,000 other vessels;
Ezra 1:11 all the vessels of gold and of silver were 5,400. All these did Sheshbazzar bring up, when the exiles were brought up from Babylonia to Jerusalem.
Ezra 2:1  whom Nebuchadnezzar the king of Babylon had carried captive to Babylonia. They returned to Jerusalem and Judah, each to his own town.
Ezra 2:2 They came with Zerubbabel, Jeshua, Nehemiah, Seraiah, Reelaiah, Mordecai, Bilshan, Mispar, Bigvai, Rehum, and Baanah. The number of the men of the people of Israel:
Ezra 2:3  the sons of Parosh, 2,172.
Ezra 2:4 The sons of Shephatiah, 372.
Ezra 2:5 The sons of Arah, 775.
Ezra 2:6 The sons of Pahath-moab, namely the sons of Jeshua and Joab, 2,812.
Ezra 2:7 The sons of Elam, 1,254.
Ezra 2:8 The sons of Zattu, 945.
Ezra 2:9 The sons of Zaccai, 760.
Ezra 2:10 The sons of Bani, 642.
Ezra 2:11 The sons of Bebai, 623.
Ezra 2:12 The sons of Azgad, 1,222.
Ezra 2:13 The sons of Adonikam, 666.
Ezra 2:14 The sons of Bigvai, 2,056.
Ezra 2:15 The sons of Adin, 454.
Ezra 2:16 The sons of Ater, namely of Hezekiah, 98.
Ezra 2:17 The sons of Bezai, 323.
Ezra 2:18 The sons of Jorah, 112.
Ezra 2:19 The sons of Hashum, 223.
Ezra 2:20 The sons of Gibbar, 95.
Ezra 2:21 The sons of Bethlehem, 123.
Ezra 2:22 The men of Netophah, 56.
Ezra 2:23 The men of Anathoth, 128.
Ezra 2:24 The sons of Azmaveth, 42.
Ezra 2:25 The sons of Kiriath-arim, Chephirah, and Beeroth, 743.
Ezra 2:26 The sons of Ramah and Geba, 621.
Ezra 2:27 The men of Michmas, 122.
Ezra 2:28 The men of Bethel and Ai, 223.
Ezra 2:29 The sons of Nebo, 52.
Ezra 2:30 The sons of Magbish, 156.
Ezra 2:31 The sons of the other Elam, 1,254.
Ezra 2:32 The sons of Harim, 320.
Ezra 2:33 The sons of Lod, Hadid, and Ono, 725.
Ezra 2:34 The sons of Jericho, 345.
Ezra 2:35 The sons of Senaah, 3,630.
Ezra 2:36 The priests: the sons of Jedaiah, of the house of Jeshua, 973.
Ezra 2:37 The sons of Immer, 1,052.
Ezra 2:38 The sons of Pashhur, 1,247.
Ezra 2:39 The sons of Harim, 1,017.
Ezra 2:40 The Levites: the sons of Jeshua and Kadmiel, of the sons of Hodaviah, 74.
Ezra 2:41 The singers: the sons of Asaph, 128.
Ezra 2:42 The sons of the gatekeepers: the sons of Shallum, the sons of Ater, the sons of Talmon, the sons of Akkub, the sons of Hatita, and the sons of Shobai, in all 139.
Ezra 2:43  The temple servants: the sons of Ziha, the sons of Hasupha, the sons of Tabbaoth,
Ezra 2:44 the sons of Keros, the sons of Siaha, the sons of Padon,
Ezra 2:45 the sons of Lebanah, the sons of Hagabah, the sons of Akkub,
Ezra 2:46 the sons of Hagab, the sons of Shamlai, the sons of Hanan,
Ezra 2:47 the sons of Giddel, the sons of Gahar, the sons of Reaiah,
Ezra 2:48 the sons of Rezin, the sons of Nekoda, the sons of Gazzam,
Ezra 2:49 the sons of Uzza, the sons of Paseah, the sons of Besai,
Ezra 2:50 the sons of Asnah, the sons of Meunim, the sons of Nephisim,
Ezra 2:51 the sons of Bakbuk, the sons of Hakupha, the sons of Harhur,
Ezra 2:52 the sons of Bazluth, the sons of Mehida, the sons of Harsha,
Ezra 2:53 the sons of Barkos, the sons of Sisera, the sons of Temah,
Ezra 2:54 the sons of Neziah, and the sons of Hatipha.
Ezra 2:55  The sons of Solomon's servants: the sons of Sotai, the sons of Hassophereth, the sons of Peruda,
Ezra 2:56 the sons of Jaalah, the sons of Darkon, the sons of Giddel,
Ezra 2:57 the sons of Shephatiah, the sons of Hattil, the sons of Pochereth-hazzebaim, and the sons of Ami.
Ezra 2:58 All the temple servants and the sons of Solomon's servants were 392.
Ezra 2:59 The following were those who came up from Tel-melah, Tel-harsha, Cherub, Addan, and Immer, though they could not prove their fathers' houses or their descent, whether they belonged to Israel:
Ezra 2:60 the sons of Delaiah, the sons of Tobiah, and the sons of Nekoda, 652.
Ezra 2:61 Also, of the sons of the priests: the sons of Habaiah, the sons of Hakkoz, and the sons of Barzillai (who had taken a wife from the daughters of Barzillai the Gileadite, and was called by their name).
Ezra 2:62 These sought their registration among those enrolled in the genealogies, but they were not found there, and so they were excluded from the priesthood as unclean.
Ezra 2:63 The Urim and Thummim.
Ezra 2:64  The whole assembly together was 42,360,
Ezra 2:65 besides their male and female servants, of whom there were 7,337, and they had 200 male and female singers.
Ezra 2:66 Their horses were 736, their mules were 245,
Ezra 2:67 their camels were 435, and their donkeys were 6,720.
Ezra 2:68  Some of the heads of families, when they came to the house of the LORD that is in Jerusalem, made freewill offerings for the house of God, to erect it on its site.
Ezra 2:69 According to their ability they gave to  of silver, and 100 priests' garments.
Ezra 2:70   in their towns.
Ezra 3:1  When the seventh month came, and the children of Israel were in the towns, the people gathered as one man to Jerusalem.
Ezra 3:2 Then arose Jeshua the son of Jozadak, with his fellow priests, and man of God.
Ezra 3:3 They set the altar in its place, they offered burnt offerings on it to the LORD, burnt offerings morning and evening.
Ezra 3:4  and offered the daily burnt offerings by number according to the rule, as each day required,
Ezra 3:5 and after that the regular burnt and at all the appointed feasts of the LORD, and the offerings of everyone who made a freewill offering to the LORD.
Ezra 3:6 From the first day of the seventh month they began to offer burnt offerings to the LORD. But the foundation of the temple of the LORD was not yet laid.
Ezra 3:7 So they gave money to the masons and the carpenters, according to the grant that they had from Cyrus king of Persia.
Ezra 3:8 Now in the second year after their coming to the house of God at Jerusalem, in the second month, supervise the work of the house of the LORD.
Ezra 3:9 And sons of Henadad and the Levites, their sons and brothers.
Ezra 3:10 And when the builders laid the foundation of the temple of the LORD, the priests in their vestments came forward with trumpets, and the Levites, the sons of Asaph, with cymbals, to praise the LORD, according to the directions of David king of Israel.
Ezra 3:11 And they sang responsively, praising and giving thanks to the LORD, “For he is good, for his steadfast love endures forever toward Israel.”  And all the people shouted with a great shout when they praised the LORD, because the foundation of the house of the LORD was laid.
Ezra 3:12 But many of the priests and Levites and heads of fathers' houses, old men who had seen the first house, wept with a loud voice when they saw the foundation of this house being laid, though many shouted aloud for joy,
Ezra 3:13 so that the people could not distinguish the sound of the joyful shout from the sound of the people's weeping, for the people shouted with a great shout, and the sound was heard far away.
Ezra 4:1 Now when the adversaries of Judah and Benjamin heard that the returned exiles were building a temple to the LORD, the God of Israel,
Ezra 4:2 they approached Zerubbabel and the heads of fathers' houses and said to them, “Let us build with you, for we worship your God as you do, and we have been sacrificing to him ever who brought us here.”
Ezra 4:3 But Zerubbabel, Jeshua, and the rest of the heads of fathers' houses in Israel said to them, as King Cyrus the king of Persia has commanded us.”
Ezra 4:4 Then the people of the land discouraged the people of Judah and made them afraid to build
Ezra 4:5 and bribed counselors against them to frustrate their purpose, all the days of Cyrus king of Persia, even until the reign of Darius king of Persia.
Ezra 4:6 And in the reign of Ahasuerus, in the beginning of his reign, they wrote an accusation against the inhabitants of Judah and Jerusalem.
Ezra 4:7 In the days of Artaxerxes, Bishlam and
Ezra 4:8 Rehum the commander and Shimshai the scribe wrote a letter against Jerusalem to Artaxerxes the king as follows:
Ezra 4:9 Rehum the commander, Shimshai the scribe, and the rest of their associates, the Elamites,
Ezra 4:10 and the rest of the nations whom the great and noble Osnappar deported and settled in the cities of Samaria and in the rest of the province Beyond the River.
Ezra 4:11 (This is a copy of the letter that they sent.) “To Artaxerxes the king: Your servants, the men of the province Beyond the River, send greeting. And now
Ezra 4:12 be it known to the king that the Jews who came up from you to us have gone to Jerusalem. They are rebuilding that rebellious and wicked city. They are finishing the walls and repairing the foundations.
Ezra 4:13 Now be it known to the king that if this city is rebuilt and the walls finished, they will not pay tribute, custom, or toll, and the royal revenue will be impaired.
Ezra 4:14 Now because we eat the salt of the palace  and it is not fitting for us to witness the king's dishonor, therefore we send and inform the king,
Ezra 4:15 in order that search may be made in the book of the records of your fathers. You will find in the book of the records and learn that this city is a rebellious city, hurtful to kings and provinces, and that sedition was stirred up in it from of old. That was why this city was laid waste.
Ezra 4:16 We make known to the king that if this city is rebuilt and its walls finished, you will then have no possession in the province Beyond the River.”
Ezra 4:17 The king sent an answer: “To Rehum the commander and Shimshai the scribe and the rest of their associates who live in Samaria and in the rest of the province Beyond the River, greeting. And now
Ezra 4:18 the letter that you sent to us has been plainly read before me.
Ezra 4:19 And I made a decree, and search has been made, and it has been found that this city from of old has risen against kings, and that rebellion and sedition have been made in it.
Ezra 4:20 And mighty kings have been over Jerusalem, tribute, custom, and toll were paid.
Ezra 4:21 Therefore make a decree that these men be made to cease, and that this city be not rebuilt, until a decree is made by me.
Ezra 4:22 And take care not to be slack in this matter. Why should damage grow to the hurt of the king?”
Ezra 4:23 Then, when the copy of King Artaxerxes' letter was read before Rehum and Shimshai the scribe and their associates, they went in haste to the Jews at Jerusalem and by force and power made them cease.
Ezra 4:24 Then the work on the house of God that is in Jerusalem stopped, and it ceased until the second year of the reign of Darius king of Persia.
Ezra 5:1 Now the prophets, Zechariah the son of Iddo, prophesied to the Jews who were in Judah and Jerusalem, in the name of the God of Israel who was over them.
Ezra 5:2  with them, supporting them.
Ezra 5:3 At the same time “Who gave you a decree to build this house and to finish this structure?”
Ezra 5:4 They also asked them this:  “What are the names of the men who are building this building?”
Ezra 5:5 But the eye of their God was on the elders of the Jews, and they did not stop them until the report should reach Darius and then an answer be returned by letter concerning it.
Ezra 5:6 This is a copy of the letter that governors who were in the province Beyond the River, sent to Darius the king.
Ezra 5:7 They sent him a report, in which was written as follows: “To Darius the king, all peace.
Ezra 5:8 Be it known to the king that we went to the province of Judah, to the house of the great God. It is being built with huge stones, and timber is laid in the walls. This work goes on diligently and prospers in their hands.
Ezra 5:9 Then we asked those elders and spoke to them thus: ‘Who gave you a decree to build this house and to finish this structure?’
Ezra 5:10 We also asked them their names, for your information, that we might write down the names of their leaders.
Ezra 5:11 And this was their reply to us: ‘We are the servants of the God of heaven and earth, and we are rebuilding the house that was built many years ago, finished.
Ezra 5:12  gave them into the hand of Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon, the Chaldean, who destroyed this house and carried away the people to Babylonia.
Ezra 5:13  However, in the first year of Cyrus king of Babylon, Cyrus the king made a decree that this house of God should be rebuilt.
Ezra 5:14  Sheshbazzar, whom he had made governor;
Ezra 5:15 and he said to him, “Take these vessels, go and put them in the temple that is in Jerusalem, and let the house of God be rebuilt on its site.”
Ezra 5:16 Then this not yet finished.’
Ezra 5:17 Therefore, if it seems good to the king, let search be made in the royal archives there in Babylon, to see whether a decree was issued by Cyrus the king for the rebuilding of this house of God in Jerusalem. And let the king send us his pleasure in this matter.”
Ezra 6:1 Then Darius the king made a decree, and search was made in Babylonia, in the house of the archives where the documents were stored.
Ezra 6:2 And in Ecbatana, the citadel that is in the province of Media, a scroll was found on which this was written: “A record.
Ezra 6:3 In the first year of Cyrus the king, Cyrus the king issued a decree: Concerning the house of God at Jerusalem, let the house be rebuilt, the place where sacrifices were offered, and let its foundations be retained. Its height shall be sixty cubits  and its breadth sixty cubits,
Ezra 6:4  with three layers of great stones and one layer of timber. Let the cost be paid from the royal treasury.
Ezra 6:5 And also let the gold and silver vessels of the house of God, which Nebuchadnezzar took out of the temple that is in Jerusalem and brought to Babylon, be restored and brought back to the temple that is in Jerusalem, each to its place. You shall put them in the house of God.”
Ezra 6:6 “Now therefore,  associates the governors who are in the province Beyond the River, keep away.
Ezra 6:7 Let the work on this house of God alone. Let the governor of the Jews and the elders of the Jews rebuild this house of God on its site.
Ezra 6:8 Moreover, I make a decree regarding what you shall do for these elders of the Jews for the rebuilding of this house of God. The cost is to be paid to these men in full and without delay from the royal revenue, the tribute of the province from Beyond the River.
Ezra 6:9 And whatever is needed — bulls, rams, or sheep for burnt offerings to the God of heaven, wheat, salt, wine, or oil, as the priests at Jerusalem require — let that be given to them day by day without fail,
Ezra 6:10 that they may offer pleasing sacrifices to the God of heaven and pray for the life of the king and his sons.
Ezra 6:11 Also I make a decree that if anyone alters this edict, a beam shall be pulled out of his house, and he shall be impaled on it, and his house shall be made a dunghill.
Ezra 6:12 May the God who has caused his name to dwell there overthrow any king or people who shall put out a hand to alter this, or to destroy this house of God that is in Jerusalem. I Darius make a decree; let it be done with all diligence.”
Ezra 6:13 Then, according to the word sent by Darius the king, Tattenai, the governor of the province Beyond the River, Shethar-bozenai, and their associates did with all diligence what Darius the king had ordered.
Ezra 6:14  Artaxerxes king of Persia;
Ezra 6:15 and this house was finished on the third day of the month of Adar, in the sixth year of the reign of Darius the king.
Ezra 6:16 And the people of Israel, the priests and the Levites, and the rest of the returned exiles, celebrated the dedication of this house of God with joy.
Ezra 6:17 They offered at the dedication of this house of God 100 bulls, 200 rams, 400 lambs, and as a sin offering for all Israel 12 male goats, according to the number of the tribes of Israel.
Ezra 6:18 And they set the priests as it is written in the Book of Moses.
Ezra 6:19  On the fourteenth day of the first month, the returned exiles kept the Passover.
Ezra 6:20  So they slaughtered the Passover lamb for all the returned exiles, for their fellow priests, and for themselves.
Ezra 6:21 It was eaten by the people of Israel who had returned from exile, and from the uncleanness of the peoples of the land to worship the LORD, the God of Israel.
Ezra 6:22 And they kept the Feast of Unleavened Bread the king of Assyria to them, so that he aided them in the work of the house of God, the God of Israel.
Ezra 7:1 Now after this, Ezra the son of Seraiah, son of Azariah, son of Hilkiah,
Ezra 7:2 son of Shallum, son of Zadok, son of Ahitub,
Ezra 7:3 son of Amariah, son of Azariah, son of Meraioth,
Ezra 7:4 son of Zerahiah, son of Uzzi, son of Bukki,
Ezra 7:5 son of Abishua, son of Phinehas, son of Eleazar, son of Aaron the chief priest —
Ezra 7:6 this Ezra went up from Babylonia. He was a scribe for the hand of the LORD his God was on him.
Ezra 7:7 And there went up also to Jerusalem, in the seventh year of Artaxerxes the king, some of the people of Israel, and servants.
Ezra 7:8 And Ezra  came to Jerusalem in the fifth month, which was in the seventh year of the king.
Ezra 7:9 For on the first day of the first month he began to go up from Babylonia, and on the first day of the fifth month he came to Jerusalem, for the good hand of his God was on him.
Ezra 7:10 For Ezra had set his heart to study the Law of the LORD, and to do it teach his statutes and rules in Israel.
Ezra 7:11 This is a copy of the letter that King Artaxerxes gave to Ezra the priest, the scribe, a man learned in matters of the commandments of the LORD and his statutes for Israel:
Ezra 7:12 “Artaxerxes, And now
Ezra 7:13  I make a decree that anyone of the people of Israel or their priests or Levites in my kingdom, who freely offers to go to Jerusalem, may go with you.
Ezra 7:14 For you are sent by the king and his seven counselors to make inquiries about Judah and Jerusalem according to the Law of your God, which is in your hand,
Ezra 7:15 and also to carry the silver and gold that the king whose dwelling is in Jerusalem,
Ezra 7:16  with the freewill offerings of the people and the priests, vowed willingly for the house of their God that is in Jerusalem.
Ezra 7:17 With this money, then, you shall with all diligence buy bulls, rams, and lambs, with their grain offerings and their drink offerings, and you shall offer them on the altar of the house of your God that is in Jerusalem.
Ezra 7:18 Whatever seems good to you and your brothers to do with the rest of the silver and gold, you may do, according to the will of your God.
Ezra 7:19 The vessels that have been given you for the service of the house of your God, you shall deliver before the God of Jerusalem.
Ezra 7:20 And whatever else is required for the house of your God, which it falls to you to provide, you may provide it out of the king's treasury.
Ezra 7:21 “And I, Artaxerxes the king, make a decree to all the treasurers in the province Beyond the River: Whatever Ezra the priest, the scribe of the Law of the God of heaven, requires of you, let it be done with all diligence,
Ezra 7:22 up to 100 talents  of wine, 100 baths of oil, and salt without prescribing how much.
Ezra 7:23 Whatever is decreed by the God of heaven, let it be done in full for the house of the God of heaven, lest his wrath be against the realm of the king and his sons.
Ezra 7:24 We also notify you that it shall not be lawful to impose tribute, custom, or toll on anyone of the priests, the Levites, the singers, the doorkeepers, the temple servants, or other servants of this house of God.
Ezra 7:25 “And you, Ezra, according to the wisdom of your God that is in your hand, And those who do not know them, you shall teach.
Ezra 7:26 Whoever will not obey the law of your God and the law of the king, let judgment be strictly executed on him, whether for death or for banishment or for confiscation of his goods or for imprisonment.”
Ezra 7:27  who put such a thing as this into the heart of the king, to beautify the house of the LORD that is in Jerusalem,
Ezra 7:28  and who extended to me his steadfast love before the king and his counselors, and before all the king's mighty officers. I took courage, for the hand of the LORD my God was on me, and I gathered leading men from Israel to go up with me.
Ezra 8:1 These are the heads of their fathers' houses, and this is the genealogy of those who went up with me from Babylonia, in the reign of Artaxerxes the king:
Ezra 8:2 Of the sons of Phinehas, Gershom. Of the sons of Hattush.
Ezra 8:3 Of the sons of Shecaniah, who was of the sons of Parosh, Zechariah, with whom were registered 150 men.
Ezra 8:4  Of the sons of Pahath-moab, Eliehoenai the son of Zerahiah, and with him 200 men.
Ezra 8:5 Of the sons of Zattu,  Shecaniah the son of Jahaziel, and with him 300 men.
Ezra 8:6 Of the sons of Adin, Ebed the son of Jonathan, and with him 50 men.
Ezra 8:7 Of the sons of Elam, Jeshaiah the son of Athaliah, and with him 70 men.
Ezra 8:8 Of the sons of Shephatiah, Zebadiah the son of Michael, and with him 80 men.
Ezra 8:9 Of the sons of Joab, Obadiah the son of Jehiel, and with him 218 men.
Ezra 8:10 Of the sons of Bani,  Shelomith the son of Josiphiah, and with him 160 men.
Ezra 8:11  Of the sons of Bebai, Zechariah, the son of Bebai, and with him 28 men.
Ezra 8:12 Of the sons of Azgad, Johanan the son of Hakkatan, and with him 110 men.
Ezra 8:13 Of the sons of Adonikam, those who came later, their names being Eliphelet, Jeuel, and Shemaiah, and with them 60 men.
Ezra 8:14 Of the sons of Bigvai, Uthai and Zaccur, and with them 70 men.
Ezra 8:15 I gathered them to the river that runs to none of the sons of Levi.
Ezra 8:16 Then I sent for Eliezer, Ariel, Shemaiah, Elnathan, Jarib, Elnathan, Nathan, Zechariah, and Meshullam, leading men, and for Joiarib and Elnathan, who were men of insight,
Ezra 8:17 and sent them to Iddo, the leading man at the place Casiphia, telling them what to say to Iddo and his brothers and  the temple servants at the place Casiphia, namely, to send us ministers for the house of our God.
Ezra 8:18 And Mahli the son of Levi, son of Israel, namely Sherebiah with his sons and kinsmen, 18;
Ezra 8:19 also the sons of Merari, with his kinsmen and their sons, 20;
Ezra 8:20  mentioned by name.
Ezra 8:21  to seek from him a safe journey for ourselves, our children, and all our goods.
Ezra 8:22 For I was ashamed to ask the king for a band of soldiers and horsemen to protect us against the enemy on our way, since we had told the king, all who seek him, and the power of his wrath is against all who forsake him.”
Ezra 8:23 So we fasted and implored our God for this, and he listened to our entreaty.
Ezra 8:24 Then I set apart twelve of the leading priests: Hashabiah, and ten of their kinsmen with them.
Ezra 8:25 And I weighed out to them the counselors and his lords and all Israel there present had offered.
Ezra 8:26   and 100 talents of gold,
Ezra 8:27 20 bowls of gold worth 1,000 darics,  and two vessels of fine bright bronze as precious as gold.
Ezra 8:28 And I said to them, the vessels are holy, and the silver and the gold are a freewill offering to the LORD, the God of your fathers.
Ezra 8:29 Guard them and keep them until you weigh them before the chief priests and the Levites and the heads of fathers' houses in Israel at Jerusalem, within the chambers of the house of the LORD.”
Ezra 8:30 So the priests and the Levites took over the weight of the silver and the gold and the vessels, to bring them to Jerusalem, to the house of our God.
Ezra 8:31 Then we departed from the river Ahava The hand of our God was on us, and he delivered us from the hand of the enemy and from ambushes by the way.
Ezra 8:32  We came to Jerusalem, and there we remained three days.
Ezra 8:33 On the fourth day, within the house of our God, the silver and the gold and the vessels were Binnui.
Ezra 8:34 The whole was counted and weighed, and the weight of everything was recorded.
Ezra 8:35 At that time twelve bulls for all Israel, ninety-six rams, seventy-seven lambs, and as a sin offering twelve male goats. All this was a burnt offering to the LORD.
Ezra 8:36   and to the governors of the province Beyond the River, and they aided the people and the house of God.
Ezra 9:1 After these things had been done, the officials approached me and said, “The people of Israel and the priests and the Canaanites, the Hittites, the Perizzites, the Jebusites, the Ammonites, the Moabites, the Egyptians, and the Amorites.
Ezra 9:2  mixed itself with the peoples of the lands. And in this faithlessness the hand of the officials and chief men has been foremost.”
Ezra 9:3 As soon as I heard this, I sat appalled.
Ezra 9:4 Then all who appalled until the evening sacrifice.
Ezra 9:5 And at the and spread out my hands to the LORD my God,
Ezra 9:6 saying: “O my God, I am ashamed and blush to lift my face to you, my God, for our iniquities mounted up to the heavens.
Ezra 9:7  and to utter shame, as it is today.
Ezra 9:8 But now for a brief moment favor has been shown by the LORD our God, to leave us a brighten our eyes and grant us a little reviving in our slavery.
Ezra 9:9   in Judea and Jerusalem.
Ezra 9:10 “And now, O our God, what shall we say after this? For we have forsaken your commandments,
Ezra 9:11 which you commanded by your servants the prophets, saying, ‘The land that you are entering, to take possession of it, is a land impure with the impurity of the peoples of the lands, with their abominations that have filled it from end to end with their uncleanness.
Ezra 9:12  and leave it for an inheritance to your children forever.’
Ezra 9:13 And after all that has come upon us for our evil deeds and for remnant as this,
Ezra 9:14 shall we break your commandments again and remnant, nor any to escape?
Ezra 9:15 O LORD, the God of Israel, you are just, for we are left a for none can stand before you because of this.”
Ezra 10:1  before the house of God, a very great assembly of men, women, and children, gathered to him out of Israel, for the people wept bitterly.
Ezra 10:2 And Shecaniah the son of Jehiel, of the sons of Elam, addressed Ezra: “We have broken faith with our God and have married foreign women from the peoples of the land, but even now there is hope for Israel in spite of this.
Ezra 10:3 Therefore according to the Law.
Ezra 10:4 Arise, for it is your task, and we are with you; be strong and do it.”
Ezra 10:5 Then Ezra arose and made the leading priests and Levites and all Israel take an oath that they would do as had been said. So they took the oath.
Ezra 10:6 Then Ezra withdrew eating bread nor drinking water, for he was mourning over the faithlessness of the exiles.
Ezra 10:7 And a proclamation was made throughout Judah and Jerusalem to all the returned exiles that they should assemble at Jerusalem,
Ezra 10:8 and that if anyone did not come within three days, by order of the officials and the elders all his property should be forfeited, and he himself banned from the congregation of the exiles.
Ezra 10:9 Then all the men of Judah and Benjamin assembled at Jerusalem within the three days. It was the ninth month, on the twentieth day of the month. And all the people sat in the open square before the house of God, trembling because of this matter and because of the heavy rain.
Ezra 10:10 And Ezra the priest stood up and said to them, “You have broken faith and married foreign women, and so increased the guilt of Israel.
Ezra 10:11 Now then Separate yourselves from the peoples of the land and from the foreign wives.”
Ezra 10:12 Then all the assembly answered with a loud voice, “It is so; we must do as you have said.
Ezra 10:13 But the people are many, and it is a time of heavy rain; we cannot stand in the open. Nor is this a task for one day or for two, for we have greatly transgressed in this matter.
Ezra 10:14 Let our officials stand for the whole assembly. Let all in our cities who have taken foreign wives come until the fierce wrath of our God over this matter is turned away from us.”
Ezra 10:15 Only Jonathan the son of Asahel and Jahzeiah the son of Tikvah opposed this, and Shabbethai the Levite supported them.
Ezra 10:16 Then the returned exiles did so. Ezra the priest selected men,  heads of fathers' houses, according to their fathers' houses, each of them designated by name. On the first day of the tenth month they sat down to examine the matter;
Ezra 10:17 and by the first day of the first month they had come to the end of all the men who had married foreign women.
Ezra 10:18 Now there were found some of the sons of the priests who had married foreign women: Maaseiah, Eliezer, Jarib, and Gedaliah, some of the sons of Jeshua the son of Jozadak and his brothers.
Ezra 10:19 They
Ezra 10:20  Of the sons of Immer: Hanani and Zebadiah.
Ezra 10:21  Of the sons of Harim: Maaseiah, Elijah, Shemaiah, Jehiel, and Uzziah.
Ezra 10:22 Of the sons of Pashhur: Elioenai, Maaseiah, Ishmael, Nethanel, Jozabad, and Elasah.
Ezra 10:23 Of the Levites: Jozabad, Shimei, Kelaiah (that is, Kelita), Pethahiah, Judah, and Eliezer.
Ezra 10:24 Of the singers: Eliashib. Of the gatekeepers: Shallum, Telem, and Uri.
Ezra 10:25 And of Israel: of the sons of Parosh: Ramiah, Izziah, Malchijah, Mijamin, Eleazar, Hashabiah,  and Benaiah.
Ezra 10:26 Of the sons of Elam: Mattaniah, Zechariah, Jehiel, Abdi, Jeremoth, and Elijah.
Ezra 10:27 Of the sons of Zattu: Elioenai, Eliashib, Mattaniah, Jeremoth, Zabad, and Aziza.
Ezra 10:28 Of the sons of Bebai were Jehohanan, Hananiah, Zabbai, and Athlai.
Ezra 10:29 Of the sons of Bani were Meshullam, Malluch, Adaiah, Jashub, Sheal, and Jeremoth.
Ezra 10:30 Of the sons of Pahath-moab: Adna, Chelal, Benaiah, Maaseiah, Mattaniah, Bezalel, Binnui, and Manasseh.
Ezra 10:31 Of the sons of Harim: Eliezer, Isshijah, Malchijah, Shemaiah, Shimeon,
Ezra 10:32 Benjamin, Malluch, and Shemariah.
Ezra 10:33 Of the sons of Hashum: Mattenai, Mattattah, Zabad, Eliphelet, Jeremai, Manasseh, and Shimei.
Ezra 10:34 Of the sons of Bani: Maadai, Amram, Uel,
Ezra 10:35 Benaiah, Bedeiah, Cheluhi,
Ezra 10:36 Vaniah, Meremoth, Eliashib,
Ezra 10:37 Mattaniah, Mattenai, Jaasu.
Ezra 10:38 Of the sons of Binnui:  Shimei,
Ezra 10:39 Shelemiah, Nathan, Adaiah,
Ezra 10:40 Machnadebai, Shashai, Sharai,
Ezra 10:41 Azarel, Shelemiah, Shemariah,
Ezra 10:42 Shallum, Amariah, and Joseph.
Ezra 10:43 Of the sons of Nebo: Jeiel, Mattithiah, Zabad, Zebina, Jaddai, Joel, and Benaiah.
Ezra 10:44 All these had married foreign women, and some of the women
Nehemiah 1:1 The words of Susa the citadel,
Nehemiah 1:2 that Hanani, one of my brothers, came with certain men from Judah. And I asked them concerning the Jews who escaped, who had survived the exile, and concerning Jerusalem.
Nehemiah 1:3 And they said to me, “The remnant there in the province who had survived the exile is in great trouble and and its gates are destroyed by fire.”
Nehemiah 1:4 As soon as I heard these words I God of heaven.
Nehemiah 1:5 And I said, “O LORD God of heaven, the great and awesome God who keeps covenant and steadfast love with those who love him and keep his commandments,
Nehemiah 1:6  I and my father's house have sinned.
Nehemiah 1:7  that you commanded your servant Moses.
Nehemiah 1:8 Remember the word that you commanded your servant Moses, saying, ‘If you are unfaithful, I will scatter you among the peoples,
Nehemiah 1:9  to the place that I have chosen, to make my name dwell there.’
Nehemiah 1:10  They are your servants and your people, whom you have redeemed by your great power and by your strong hand.
Nehemiah 1:11 O Lord, cupbearer to the king.
Nehemiah 2:1 In the month of Nisan, I took up the wine and gave it to the king. Now I had not been sad in his presence.
Nehemiah 2:2 And the king said to me, “Why is your face sad, seeing you are not sick? This is nothing but sadness of the heart.” Then I was very much afraid.
Nehemiah 2:3 I said to the king, when the city, the place of my fathers' graves, lies in ruins, and its gates have been destroyed by fire?”
Nehemiah 2:4 Then the king said to me, “What are you requesting?” So I prayed to the God of heaven.
Nehemiah 2:5 And I said to the king, “If it pleases the king, and if your servant has found favor in your sight, that you send me to Judah, to the city of my fathers' graves, that I may rebuild it.”
Nehemiah 2:6 And the king said to me ( when I had given him a time.
Nehemiah 2:7 And I said to the king, “If it pleases the king, let letters be given me to the governors of the province Beyond the River, that they may let me pass through until I come to Judah,
Nehemiah 2:8 and a letter to Asaph, the keeper of the king's forest, that he may give me timber to make beams for the gates of for the good hand of my God was upon me.
Nehemiah 2:9 Then I came to the governors of the province Beyond the River and gave them the king's letters. Now the king had sent with me officers of the army and horsemen.
Nehemiah 2:10 But when Tobiah the Ammonite servant heard this, it displeased them greatly that someone had come to seek the welfare of the people of Israel.
Nehemiah 2:11  So I went to Jerusalem and was there three days.
Nehemiah 2:12 Then I arose in the night, I and a few men with me. And I told no one what my God had put into my heart to do for Jerusalem. There was no animal with me but the one on which I rode.
Nehemiah 2:13 I went out by night by and its gates that had been destroyed by fire.
Nehemiah 2:14 Then I went on to the King's Pool, but there was no room for the animal that was under me to pass.
Nehemiah 2:15 Then I went up in the night by the valley and inspected the wall, and I turned back and entered by the Valley Gate, and so returned.
Nehemiah 2:16 And the officials did not know where I had gone or what I was doing, and I had not yet told the Jews, the priests, the nobles, the officials, and the rest who were to do the work.
Nehemiah 2:17 Then I said to them, “You see the trouble we are in, suffer derision.”
Nehemiah 2:18 And I told them So they strengthened their hands for the good work.
Nehemiah 2:19 But when Sanballat the Horonite and Tobiah the Ammonite servant and Are you rebelling against the king?”
Nehemiah 2:20 Then I replied to them,  in Jerusalem.”
Nehemiah 3:1 Then Tower of Hananel.
Nehemiah 3:2 And next to him  Zaccur the son of Imri built.
Nehemiah 3:3 The sons of Hassenaah built set its doors, its bolts, and its bars.
Nehemiah 3:4 And next to them Meshullam the son of Berechiah, son of Meshezabel repaired. And next to them Zadok the son of Baana repaired.
Nehemiah 3:5 And next to them
Nehemiah 3:6 Joiada the son of Paseah and Meshullam the son of Besodeiah set its doors, its bolts, and its bars.
Nehemiah 3:7 And next to them repaired Melatiah the Gibeonite and Jadon the Meronothite, the men of Gibeon and of Mizpah, the seat of the governor of the province Beyond the River.
Nehemiah 3:8 Next to them Uzziel the son of Harhaiah, goldsmiths, repaired. Next to him Hananiah, one of the perfumers, repaired, and they restored Jerusalem as far as the Broad Wall.
Nehemiah 3:9 Next to them Rephaiah the son of Hur,  Jerusalem, repaired.
Nehemiah 3:10 Next to them Jedaiah the son of Harumaph repaired opposite his house. And next to him Hattush the son of Hashabneiah repaired.
Nehemiah 3:11 Malchijah the son of Harim and Hasshub the son of Pahath-moab repaired another section and the Tower of the Ovens.
Nehemiah 3:12 Next to him Shallum the son of Hallohesh, ruler of half the district of Jerusalem, repaired, he and his daughters.
Nehemiah 3:13 Hanun and the inhabitants of Zanoah repaired the Dung Gate.
Nehemiah 3:14 Malchijah the son of Rechab, ruler of the district of set its doors, its bolts, and its bars.
Nehemiah 3:15 And Shallum the son of Col-hozeh, ruler of the district of Mizpah, repaired the stairs that go down from the city of David.
Nehemiah 3:16 After him Nehemiah the son of Azbuk, ruler of half the district of Beth-zur, repaired to a point opposite the artificial pool, and as far as the house of the mighty men.
Nehemiah 3:17 After him the Levites repaired: Rehum the son of Bani. Next to him Hashabiah, ruler of half the district of Keilah, repaired for his district.
Nehemiah 3:18 After him their brothers repaired: Bavvai the son of Henadad, ruler of half the district of Keilah.
Nehemiah 3:19 Next to him Ezer the son of Jeshua, ruler of Mizpah, repaired another section opposite the ascent to the armory at
Nehemiah 3:20 After him Baruch the son of Zabbai repaired Eliashib the high priest.
Nehemiah 3:21 After him Meremoth the son of Uriah, son of Hakkoz repaired another section from the door of the house of Eliashib to the end of the house of Eliashib.
Nehemiah 3:22 After him the priests, the men of the surrounding area, repaired.
Nehemiah 3:23 After them Benjamin and Hasshub repaired opposite their house. After them Azariah the son of Maaseiah, son of Ananiah repaired beside his own house.
Nehemiah 3:24 After him Binnui the son of Henadad repaired another section, from the house of Azariah to the buttress and to the corner.
Nehemiah 3:25 Palal the son of Uzai repaired opposite the buttress and the tower projecting from the upper house of the king at the court of the guard. After him Pedaiah the son of Parosh
Nehemiah 3:26  the Water Gate on the east and the projecting tower.
Nehemiah 3:27 After him the Tekoites repaired another section opposite the great projecting tower as far as the wall of Ophel.
Nehemiah 3:28 Above the Horse Gate the priests repaired, each one opposite his own house.
Nehemiah 3:29 After them Zadok the son of Immer repaired opposite his own house. After him Shemaiah the son of Shecaniah, the keeper of the East Gate, repaired.
Nehemiah 3:30 After him Hananiah the son of Shelemiah and Hanun the sixth son of Zalaph repaired another section. After him his chamber.
Nehemiah 3:31 After him Malchijah, one of the goldsmiths, repaired as far as the house of the temple servants and of the merchants, opposite the Muster Gate,  and to the upper chamber of the corner.
Nehemiah 3:32 And between the upper chamber of the corner and the Sheep Gate the goldsmiths and the merchants repaired.
Nehemiah 4:1  Sanballat heard that we were building the wall, he was angry and greatly enraged, and he jeered at the Jews.
Nehemiah 4:2 And he said in the presence of his brothers and of the army of  Will they sacrifice? Will they finish up in a day? Will they revive the stones out of the heaps of rubbish, and burned ones at that?”
Nehemiah 4:3  if a fox goes up on it he will break down their stone wall!”
Nehemiah 4:4  Turn back their taunt on their own heads and give them up to be plundered in a land where they are captives.
Nehemiah 4:5  Do not cover their guilt, and let not their sin be blotted out from your sight, for they have provoked you to anger in the presence of the builders.
Nehemiah 4:6 So we built the wall. And all the wall was joined together to half its height, for the people had a mind to work.
Nehemiah 4:7  Sanballat and Tobiah and the Arabs and the Ammonites and the Ashdodites heard that the repairing of the walls of Jerusalem was going forward and that the breaches were beginning to be closed, they were very angry.
Nehemiah 4:8  And they all plotted together to come and fight against Jerusalem and to cause confusion in it.
Nehemiah 4:9 And we prayed to our God and set a guard as a protection against them day and night.
Nehemiah 4:10 In Judah it was said,  “The strength of those who bear the burdens is failing. There is too much rubble. By ourselves we will not be able to rebuild the wall.”
Nehemiah 4:11 And our enemies said, “They will not know or see till we come among them and kill them and stop the work.”
Nehemiah 4:12 At that time the Jews who lived near them came from all directions and said to us ten times, “You must return to us.”
Nehemiah 4:13 So in the lowest parts of the space behind the wall, in open places, I stationed the people by their clans, with their swords, their spears, and their bows.
Nehemiah 4:14 And I looked and arose and said to the nobles and to the officials and to the rest of the people, and fight for your brothers, your sons, your daughters, your wives, and your homes.”
Nehemiah 4:15 When our enemies heard that it was known to us and that God had frustrated their plan, we all returned to the wall, each to his work.
Nehemiah 4:16 From that day on, half of my servants worked on construction, and half held the spears, shields, bows, and coats of mail. And the leaders stood behind the whole house of Judah,
Nehemiah 4:17 who were building on the wall. Those who carried burdens were loaded in such a way that each labored on the work with one hand and held his weapon with the other.
Nehemiah 4:18 And each of the builders had his sword strapped at his side while he built. The man who sounded the trumpet was beside me.
Nehemiah 4:19 And I said to the nobles and to the officials and to the rest of the people, “The work is great and widely spread, and we are separated on the wall, far from one another.
Nehemiah 4:20 In the place where you hear the sound of the trumpet, rally to us there. Our God will fight for us.”
Nehemiah 4:21 So we labored at the work, and half of them held the spears from the break of dawn until the stars came out.
Nehemiah 4:22 I also said to the people at that time, “Let every man and his servant pass the night within Jerusalem, that they may be a guard for us by night and may labor by day.”
Nehemiah 4:23 So neither I nor my brothers nor my servants nor the men of the guard who followed me, none of us took off our clothes;
Nehemiah 5:1 Now there arose against their Jewish brothers.
Nehemiah 5:2 For there were those who said, “With our sons and our daughters, we are many. So let us get grain, that we may eat and keep alive.”
Nehemiah 5:3 There were also those who said, “We are mortgaging our fields, our vineyards, and our houses to get grain because of the famine.”
Nehemiah 5:4 And there were those who said, “We have borrowed money for the king's tax on our fields and our vineyards.
Nehemiah 5:5 Now we are forcing our sons and our daughters to be slaves, and some of our daughters have already been enslaved, but it is not in our power to help it, for other men have our fields and our vineyards.”
Nehemiah 5:6 I was very angry when I heard their outcry and these words.
Nehemiah 5:7 I took counsel with myself, and I brought charges against the nobles and the officials. I said to them, “You are exacting interest, each from his brother.” And I held a great assembly against them
Nehemiah 5:8 and said to them, “We, as far as we are able, have bought back our Jewish brothers who have been sold to the nations, but you even sell your brothers that they may be sold to us!” They were silent and could not find a word to say.
Nehemiah 5:9 So I said, “The thing that you are doing is not good. Ought you not to walk to prevent the taunts of the nations our enemies?
Nehemiah 5:10 Moreover, I and my brothers and my servants are lending them money and grain. Let us abandon this exacting of interest.
Nehemiah 5:11 Return to them this very day their fields, their vineyards, their olive orchards, and their houses, and the percentage of money, grain, wine, and oil that you have been exacting from them.”
Nehemiah 5:12 Then they said, “We will restore these and to do as they had promised.
Nehemiah 5:13  And all the assembly said “Amen” and praised the LORD. And the people did as they had promised.
Nehemiah 5:14 Moreover, from the time that I was appointed to be their governor in the land of Judah, from neither I nor my brothers ate the food allowance of the governor.
Nehemiah 5:15 The former governors who were before me laid heavy burdens on the people and took from them for their daily ration because of the fear of God.
Nehemiah 5:16 I also persevered in the work on this wall, and we acquired no land, and all my servants were gathered there for the work.
Nehemiah 5:17 Moreover, there were at my table 150 men, Jews and officials, besides those who came to us from the nations that were around us.
Nehemiah 5:18  I did not demand the food allowance of the governor, because the service was too heavy on this people.
Nehemiah 5:19  Remember for my good, O my God, all that I have done for this people.
Nehemiah 6:1 Now whenalthough up to that time I had not set up the doors in the gates),
Nehemiah 6:2 Sanballat and Geshem sent to me, saying, “Come and let us meet together at Hakkephirim in the plain of Ono.” But they intended to do me harm.
Nehemiah 6:3 And I sent messengers to them, saying, “I am doing a great work and I cannot come down. Why should the work stop while I leave it and come down to you?”
Nehemiah 6:4 And they sent to me four times in this way, and I answered them in the same manner.
Nehemiah 6:5 In the same way Sanballat for the fifth time sent his servant to me with an open letter in his hand.
Nehemiah 6:6 In it was written, “It is reported among the nations, and Geshem the Jews intend to rebel; that is why you are building the wall. And according to these reports you wish to become their king.
Nehemiah 6:7 And you have also set up prophets to proclaim concerning you in Jerusalem, ‘There is a king in Judah.’ And now the king will hear of these reports. So now come and let us take counsel together.”
Nehemiah 6:8 Then I sent to him, saying, “No such things as you say have been done, for you are inventing them out of your own mind.”
Nehemiah 6:9 For they all wanted to frighten us, thinking, “Their hands will drop from the work, and it will not be done.” But now, O God,  strengthen my hands.
Nehemiah 6:10 Now when I went into the house of Shemaiah the son of Delaiah, son of Mehetabel, who was confined to his home, he said, “Let us meet together in the house of God, within the temple. Let us close the doors of the temple, for they are coming to kill you. They are coming to kill you by night.”
Nehemiah 6:11 But I said, “Should such a man as I run away? And what man such as I could go into the temple and live?  I will not go in.”
Nehemiah 6:12 And I understood and saw that God had not sent him, but he had pronounced the prophecy against me because Tobiah and Sanballat had hired him.
Nehemiah 6:13 For this purpose he was hired, that I should be afraid and act in this way and sin, and so they could give me a bad name in order to taunt me.
Nehemiah 6:14  the prophetess Noadiah and the rest of the prophets who wanted to make me afraid.
Nehemiah 6:15 So the wall was finished on the twenty-fifth day of the month Elul, in fifty-two days.
Nehemiah 6:16 And for they perceived that this work had been accomplished with the help of our God.
Nehemiah 6:17 Moreover, in those days the nobles of Judah sent many letters to Tobiah, and Tobiah's letters came to them.
Nehemiah 6:18 For many in Judah were bound by oath to him, because he was the son-in-law of Shecaniah the son of Meshullam the son of Berechiah as his wife.
Nehemiah 6:19 Also they spoke of his good deeds in my presence and reported my words to him. And Tobiah sent letters to make me afraid.
Nehemiah 7:1 Now when the wall had been built and I had set up the doors, and the gatekeepers, the singers, and the Levites had been appointed,
Nehemiah 7:2 I gave a more faithful and God-fearing man than many.
Nehemiah 7:3 And I said to them, “Let not the gates of Jerusalem be opened until the sun is hot. And while they are still standing guard, let them shut and bar the doors. Appoint guards from among the inhabitants of Jerusalem, some at their guard posts and some in front of their own homes.”
Nehemiah 7:4 The city was wide and large, but the people within it were few, and no houses had been rebuilt.
Nehemiah 7:5 Then my God put it into my heart to assemble the nobles and the officials and the people to be enrolled by genealogy. And I found the book of the genealogy of those who came up at the first, and I found written in it:
Nehemiah 7:6  These were the people of the province who came up out of the captivity of those exiles whom Nebuchadnezzar the king of Babylon had carried into exile. They returned to Jerusalem and Judah, each to his town.
Nehemiah 7:7 They came with Zerubbabel, Jeshua, Nehemiah, Azariah, Raamiah, Nahamani, Mordecai, Bilshan, Mispereth, Bigvai, Nehum, Baanah. The number of the men of the people of Israel:
Nehemiah 7:8 the sons of Parosh, 2,172.
Nehemiah 7:9 The sons of Shephatiah, 372.
Nehemiah 7:10 The sons of Arah, 652.
Nehemiah 7:11 The sons of Pahath-moab, namely the sons of Jeshua and Joab, 2,818.
Nehemiah 7:12 The sons of Elam, 1,254.
Nehemiah 7:13 The sons of Zattu, 845.
Nehemiah 7:14 The sons of Zaccai, 760.
Nehemiah 7:15 The sons of Binnui, 648.
Nehemiah 7:16 The sons of Bebai, 628.
Nehemiah 7:17 The sons of Azgad, 2,322.
Nehemiah 7:18 The sons of Adonikam, 667.
Nehemiah 7:19 The sons of Bigvai, 2,067.
Nehemiah 7:20 The sons of Adin, 655.
Nehemiah 7:21 The sons of Ater, namely of Hezekiah, 98.
Nehemiah 7:22 The sons of Hashum, 328.
Nehemiah 7:23 The sons of Bezai, 324.
Nehemiah 7:24 The sons of Hariph, 112.
Nehemiah 7:25 The sons of Gibeon, 95.
Nehemiah 7:26 The men of Bethlehem and Netophah, 188.
Nehemiah 7:27 The men of Anathoth, 128.
Nehemiah 7:28 The men of Beth-azmaveth, 42.
Nehemiah 7:29 The men of Kiriath-jearim, Chephirah, and Beeroth, 743.
Nehemiah 7:30 The men of Ramah and Geba, 621.
Nehemiah 7:31 The men of Michmas, 122.
Nehemiah 7:32 The men of Bethel and Ai, 123.
Nehemiah 7:33 The men of the other Nebo, 52.
Nehemiah 7:34 The sons of the other Elam, 1,254.
Nehemiah 7:35 The sons of Harim, 320.
Nehemiah 7:36 The sons of Jericho, 345.
Nehemiah 7:37 The sons of Lod, Hadid, and Ono, 721.
Nehemiah 7:38 The sons of Senaah, 3,930.
Nehemiah 7:39 The priests: the sons of Jedaiah, namely the house of Jeshua, 973.
Nehemiah 7:40 The sons of Immer, 1,052.
Nehemiah 7:41 The sons of Pashhur, 1,247.
Nehemiah 7:42 The sons of Harim, 1,017.
Nehemiah 7:43 The Levites: the sons of Jeshua, namely of Kadmiel of the sons of Hodevah, 74.
Nehemiah 7:44 The singers: the sons of Asaph, 148.
Nehemiah 7:45 The gatekeepers: the sons of Shallum, the sons of Ater, the sons of Talmon, the sons of Akkub, the sons of Hatita, the sons of Shobai, 138.
Nehemiah 7:46 The temple servants: the sons of Ziha, the sons of Hasupha, the sons of Tabbaoth,
Nehemiah 7:47 the sons of Keros, the sons of Sia, the sons of Padon,
Nehemiah 7:48 the sons of Lebana, the sons of Shalmai,
Nehemiah 7:49 the sons of Hanan, the sons of Giddel, the sons of Gahar,
Nehemiah 7:50 the sons of Reaiah, the sons of Rezin, the sons of Nekoda,
Nehemiah 7:51 the sons of Gazzam, the sons of Uzza, the sons of Paseah,
Nehemiah 7:52 the sons of Besai, the sons of Meunim, the sons of Nephushesim,
Nehemiah 7:53 the sons of Bakbuk, the sons of Hakupha, the sons of Harhur,
Nehemiah 7:54 the sons of Bazlith, the sons of Mehida, the sons of Harsha,
Nehemiah 7:55 the sons of Barkos, the sons of Sisera, the sons of Temah,
Nehemiah 7:56 the sons of Neziah, the sons of Hatipha.
Nehemiah 7:57 The sons of Solomon's servants: the sons of Sotai, the sons of Sophereth, the sons of Perida,
Nehemiah 7:58 the sons of Jaala, the sons of Darkon, the sons of Giddel,
Nehemiah 7:59 the sons of Shephatiah, the sons of Hattil, the sons of Pochereth-hazzebaim, the sons of Amon.
Nehemiah 7:60 All the temple servants and the sons of Solomon's servants were 392.
Nehemiah 7:61  Addon, and Immer, but they could not prove their fathers' houses nor their descent, whether they belonged to Israel:
Nehemiah 7:62 the sons of Delaiah, the sons of Tobiah, the sons of Nekoda, 642.
Nehemiah 7:63 Also, of the priests: the sons of Hobaiah, the sons of Hakkoz, the sons of Barzillai (who had taken a wife of the daughters of Barzillai the Gileadite and was called by their name).
Nehemiah 7:64 These sought their registration among those enrolled in the genealogies, but it was not found there, so they were excluded from the priesthood as unclean.
Nehemiah 7:65  governor told them that they were not to partake of the most holy food until a priest with Urim and Thummim should arise.
Nehemiah 7:66 The whole assembly together was 42,360,
Nehemiah 7:67 besides their male and female servants, of whom there were 7,337. And they had 245 singers, male and female.
Nehemiah 7:68 Their horses were 736, their mules 245,
Nehemiah 7:69 their camels 435, and their donkeys 6,720.
Nehemiah 7:70 Now some of the heads of fathers' houses gave to the work. The
Nehemiah 7:71 And some of the heads of fathers' houses gave into the treasury of the work 20,000 darics of gold and 2,200 minas of silver.
Nehemiah 7:72  And what the rest of the people gave was 20,000 darics of gold, 2,000 minas of silver, and 67 priests' garments.
Nehemiah 7:73 So the priests, the Levites, the gatekeepers, the singers, some of the people, the temple servants, and all Israel, lived in their towns. And when the seventh month had come, the people of Israel were in their towns.
Nehemiah 8:1 And all the people gathered as one man into the square before Ezra the scribe to bring the Book of the Law of Moses that the LORD had commanded Israel.
Nehemiah 8:2 So Ezra the priest on the first day of the seventh month.
Nehemiah 8:3  And he read from it facing the square before the Water Gate from early morning until midday, in the presence of the men and the women and those who could understand. And the ears of all the people were attentive to the Book of the Law.
Nehemiah 8:4 And Ezra the scribe stood on a wooden platform that they had made for the purpose. And beside him stood Mattithiah, Shema, Anaiah, Uriah, Hilkiah, and Maaseiah on his right hand, and Pedaiah, Mishael, Malchijah, Hashum, Hashbaddanah, Zechariah, and Meshullam on his left hand.
Nehemiah 8:5 And Ezra opened the book in the sight of all the people, for he was above all the people, and as he opened it all the people stood.
Nehemiah 8:6 And Ezra blessed the LORD, the great God, and all the people answered, And they bowed their heads and worshiped the LORD with their faces to the ground.
Nehemiah 8:7  while the people remained in their places.
Nehemiah 8:8 They read from the book, from the Law of God, clearly,  and they gave the sense, so that the people understood the reading.
Nehemiah 8:9 And Nehemiah, who was do not mourn or weep.” For all the people wept as they heard the words of the Law.
Nehemiah 8:10 Then he said to them, “Go your way. Eat the fat and drink sweet wine and send portions to anyone who has nothing ready, for this day is holy to our Lord. And do not be grieved, for the joy of the LORD is your strength.”
Nehemiah 8:11 So the Levites calmed all the people, saying, “Be quiet, for this day is holy; do not be grieved.”
Nehemiah 8:12 And all the people went their way to eat and drink and to send portions and to make great rejoicing, because they had understood the words that were declared to them.
Nehemiah 8:13 On the second day the heads of fathers' houses of all the people, with the priests and the Levites, came together to Ezra the scribe in order to study the words of the Law.
Nehemiah 8:14 And they found it written in the Law that the LORD had commanded by Moses  during the feast of the seventh month,
Nehemiah 8:15 and that they should proclaim it and branches of olive, wild olive, myrtle, palm, and other leafy trees to make booths, as it is written.”
Nehemiah 8:16 So the people went out and brought them and made booths for themselves, each the Gate of Ephraim.
Nehemiah 8:17 And all the assembly of those who had returned from the captivity made booths and lived in the booths, for from the days of Jeshua the son of Nun to that day very great rejoicing.
Nehemiah 8:18 And day by day, from the first day to the last day, on the eighth day there was a solemn assembly, according to the rule.
Nehemiah 9:1 Now on the twenty-fourth day of and with earth on their heads.
Nehemiah 9:2   separated themselves from all foreigners and stood and confessed their sins and the iniquities of their fathers.
Nehemiah 9:3  And they stood up in their place and read from the Book of the Law of the LORD their God for a quarter of the day; for another quarter of it they made confession and worshiped the LORD their God.
Nehemiah 9:4 On the stairs of the Levites stood Jeshua, Bani, Kadmiel, Shebaniah, Bunni, Sherebiah, Bani, and Chenani; and they cried with a loud voice to the LORD their God.
Nehemiah 9:5 Then the Levites, Jeshua, Kadmiel, Bani, Hashabneiah, Sherebiah, Hodiah, Shebaniah, and Pethahiah, said, “Stand up and bless the LORD your God from everlasting to everlasting. Blessed be your glorious name, which is exalted above all blessing and praise.
Nehemiah 9:6  and you preserve all of them; and the host of heaven worships you.
Nehemiah 9:7 You are the LORD, the God and gave him the name Abraham.
Nehemiah 9:8  And you have kept your promise, for you are righteous.
Nehemiah 9:9  their cry at the Red Sea,
Nehemiah 9:10  you made a name for yourself, as it is to this day.
Nehemiah 9:11  as a stone into mighty waters.
Nehemiah 9:12 By a pillar of cloud you led them in the day, and by a pillar of fire in the night to light for them the way in which they should go.
Nehemiah 9:13  right rules and true laws, good statutes and commandments,
Nehemiah 9:14  and you made known to them your holy Sabbath and commanded them commandments and statutes and a law by Moses your servant.
Nehemiah 9:15  told them to go in to possess the land that you had sworn to give them.
Nehemiah 9:16 “But they and our fathers acted presumptuously and stiffened their neck and did not obey your commandments.
Nehemiah 9:17 They refused to obey gracious and merciful, slow to anger and abounding in steadfast love, and did not forsake them.
Nehemiah 9:18 Even and had committed great blasphemies,
Nehemiah 9:19 you nor the pillar of fire by night to light for them the way by which they should go.
Nehemiah 9:20  and did not withhold your manna from their mouth and gave them water for their thirst.
Nehemiah 9:21  Forty years you sustained them in the wilderness, and they lacked nothing. Their clothes did not wear out and their feet did not swell.
Nehemiah 9:22 “And you gave them kingdoms and peoples and allotted to them every corner. and the land of Og king of Bashan.
Nehemiah 9:23 You multiplied their children as the stars of heaven, and you brought them into the land that you had told their fathers to enter and possess.
Nehemiah 9:24  and you subdued before them the inhabitants of the land, the Canaanites, and gave them into their hand, with their kings and the peoples of the land, that they might do with them as they would.
Nehemiah 9:25 And they captured your great goodness.
Nehemiah 9:26  and they committed great blasphemies.
Nehemiah 9:27  saviors who saved them from the hand of their enemies.
Nehemiah 9:28  and many times you delivered them according to your mercies.
Nehemiah 9:29  and stiffened their neck and would not obey.
Nehemiah 9:30 Many years Therefore you gave them into the hand of the peoples of the lands.
Nehemiah 9:31 Nevertheless, for you are a gracious and merciful God.
Nehemiah 9:32 “Now, therefore, our God, since the time of the kings of Assyria until this day.
Nehemiah 9:33  and we have acted wickedly.
Nehemiah 9:34 Our kings, our princes, our priests, and our fathers have not kept your law or paid attention to your commandments and your warnings that you gave them.
Nehemiah 9:35 Even in their own kingdom, they did not serve you or turn from their wicked works.
Nehemiah 9:36 Behold, we are slaves this day; in the land that you gave to our fathers to enjoy its fruit and its good gifts, behold, we are slaves.
Nehemiah 9:37  And its rich yield goes to the kings whom you have set over us because of our sins. They rule over our bodies and over our livestock as they please, and we are in great distress.
Nehemiah 9:38   our princes, our Levites, and our priests.
Nehemiah 10:1  the son of Hacaliah, Zedekiah,
Nehemiah 10:2  Seraiah, Azariah, Jeremiah,
Nehemiah 10:3 Pashhur, Amariah, Malchijah,
Nehemiah 10:4  Hattush, Shebaniah, Malluch,
Nehemiah 10:5 Harim, Meremoth, Obadiah,
Nehemiah 10:6 Daniel, Ginnethon, Baruch,
Nehemiah 10:7 Meshullam, Abijah, Mijamin,
Nehemiah 10:8 Maaziah, Bilgai, Shemaiah; these are the priests.
Nehemiah 10:9 And the Levites: Henadad, Kadmiel;
Nehemiah 10:10 and their brothers, Shebaniah, Hodiah, Kelita, Pelaiah, Hanan,
Nehemiah 10:11 Mica, Rehob, Hashabiah,
Nehemiah 10:12 Zaccur, Sherebiah, Shebaniah,
Nehemiah 10:13 Hodiah, Bani, Beninu.
Nehemiah 10:14 The chiefs of the people: Parosh, Pahath-moab, Elam, Zattu, Bani,
Nehemiah 10:15 Bunni, Azgad, Bebai,
Nehemiah 10:16 Adonijah, Bigvai, Adin,
Nehemiah 10:17 Ater, Hezekiah, Azzur,
Nehemiah 10:18 Hodiah, Hashum, Bezai,
Nehemiah 10:19 Hariph, Anathoth, Nebai,
Nehemiah 10:20 Magpiash, Meshullam, Hezir,
Nehemiah 10:21 Meshezabel, Zadok, Jaddua,
Nehemiah 10:22 Pelatiah, Hanan, Anaiah,
Nehemiah 10:23 Hoshea, Hananiah, Hasshub,
Nehemiah 10:24 Hallohesh, Pilha, Shobek,
Nehemiah 10:25 Rehum, Hashabnah, Maaseiah,
Nehemiah 10:26 Ahiah, Hanan, Anan,
Nehemiah 10:27 Malluch, Harim, Baanah.
Nehemiah 10:28  and all who have separated themselves from the peoples of the lands to the Law of God, their wives, their sons, their daughters, all who have knowledge and understanding,
Nehemiah 10:29 join with their brothers, their nobles, to walk in God's Law that was given by Moses the servant of God, and to observe and do all the commandments of the LORD our Lord and his rules and his statutes.
Nehemiah 10:30  We will not give our daughters to the peoples of the land or take their daughters for our sons.
Nehemiah 10:31  exaction of every debt.
Nehemiah 10:32 “We also take on ourselves the obligation to give yearly  for the service of the house of our God:
Nehemiah 10:33  the regular burnt offering, the Sabbaths, the new moons, the appointed feasts, the holy things, and the sin offerings to make atonement for Israel, and for all the work of the house of our God.
Nehemiah 10:34  as it is written in the Law.
Nehemiah 10:35 We obligate ourselves to bring the firstfruits of our ground and the firstfruits of all fruit of every tree, year by year, to the house of the LORD;
Nehemiah 10:36 also to bring to the house of our God, to the priests who minister in the house of our God, the firstborn of our sons and of our cattle, as it is written in the Law, and the firstborn of our herds and of our flocks;
Nehemiah 10:37  to the chambers of the house of our God; and to bring to the Levites the tithes from our ground, for it is the Levites who collect the tithes in all our towns where we labor.
Nehemiah 10:38 And the priest, the son of Aaron, shall be with the Levites when the Levites receive the tithes. And the Levites shall bring up the tithe of the tithes to the house of our God, to the chambers of the storehouse.
Nehemiah 10:39 For the people of Israel and the sons of Levi We will not neglect the house of our God.”
Nehemiah 11:1 Now the leaders of the people  remained in the other towns.
Nehemiah 11:2 And the people blessed all the men who willingly offered to live in Jerusalem.
Nehemiah 11:3  and the descendants of Solomon's servants.
Nehemiah 11:4 And in Jerusalem lived certain of the sons of Judah and of the sons of Benjamin. Of the sons of Judah: Athaiah the son of Uzziah, son of Zechariah, son of Amariah, son of Shephatiah, son of Mahalalel, of the sons of Perez;
Nehemiah 11:5 and Maaseiah the son of Baruch, son of Col-hozeh, son of Hazaiah, son of Adaiah, son of Joiarib, son of Zechariah, son of the Shilonite.
Nehemiah 11:6 All the sons of Perez who lived in Jerusalem were 468 valiant men.
Nehemiah 11:7 And these are the sons of Benjamin: Sallu the son of Meshullam, son of Joed, son of Pedaiah, son of Kolaiah, son of Maaseiah, son of Ithiel, son of Jeshaiah,
Nehemiah 11:8 and his brothers, men of valor, 928.
Nehemiah 11:9 Joel the son of Zichri was their overseer; and Judah the son of Hassenuah was second over the city.
Nehemiah 11:10 Of the priests: Jedaiah the son of Joiarib, Jachin,
Nehemiah 11:11 Seraiah the son of Hilkiah, son of Meshullam, son of Zadok, son of Meraioth, son of Ahitub, ruler of the house of God,
Nehemiah 11:12 and their brothers who did the work of the house, 822; and Adaiah the son of Jeroham, son of Pelaliah, son of Amzi, son of Zechariah, son of Pashhur, son of Malchijah,
Nehemiah 11:13 and his brothers, heads of fathers' houses, 242; and Amashsai, the son of Azarel, son of Ahzai, son of Meshillemoth, son of Immer,
Nehemiah 11:14 and their brothers, mighty men of valor, 128; their overseer was Zabdiel the son of Haggedolim.
Nehemiah 11:15 And of the Levites: Shemaiah the son of Hasshub, son of Azrikam, son of Hashabiah, son of Bunni;
Nehemiah 11:16 and Shabbethai and the outside work of the house of God;
Nehemiah 11:17 and  who gave thanks, and Bakbukiah, the second among his brothers; and Abda the son of Shammua, son of Galal, son of Jeduthun.
Nehemiah 11:18 All the Levites in the holy city were 284.
Nehemiah 11:19 The gatekeepers, Akkub, Talmon and their brothers, who kept watch at the gates, were 172.
Nehemiah 11:20 And the rest of Israel, and of the priests and the Levites, were in all the towns of Judah, every one in his inheritance.
Nehemiah 11:21  But the temple servants lived on Ophel; and Ziha and Gishpa were over the temple servants.
Nehemiah 11:22 The overseer of the Levites in Jerusalem was Uzzi the son of Bani, son of Hashabiah, son of Mattaniah, son of Mica, of the sons of Asaph, the singers, over the work of the house of God.
Nehemiah 11:23  as every day required.
Nehemiah 11:24 And Pethahiah the son of Meshezabel, of the sons of Zerah the son of Judah, was at the king's side  in all matters concerning the people.
Nehemiah 11:25 And as for the villages, with their fields, some of the people of Judah lived in Kiriath-arba and its villages, and in Dibon and its villages, and in Jekabzeel and its villages,
Nehemiah 11:26 and in Jeshua and in Moladah and Beth-pelet,
Nehemiah 11:27 in Hazar-shual, in Beersheba and its villages,
Nehemiah 11:28 in Ziklag, in Meconah and its villages,
Nehemiah 11:29 in En-rimmon, in Zorah, in Jarmuth,
Nehemiah 11:30 Zanoah, Adullam, and their villages, Lachish and its fields, and Azekah and its villages. So they encamped from Beersheba to the Valley of Hinnom.
Nehemiah 11:31 The people of Benjamin also lived from Geba onward, at Michmash, Aija, Bethel and its villages,
Nehemiah 11:32 Anathoth, Nob, Ananiah,
Nehemiah 11:33 Hazor, Ramah, Gittaim,
Nehemiah 11:34 Hadid, Zeboim, Neballat,
Nehemiah 11:35 Lod, and Ono, the valley of craftsmen.
Nehemiah 11:36 And certain divisions of the Levites in Judah were assigned to Benjamin.
Nehemiah 12:1 These are Seraiah, Jeremiah, Ezra,
Nehemiah 12:2 Amariah, Malluch, Hattush,
Nehemiah 12:3 Shecaniah, Rehum, Meremoth,
Nehemiah 12:4 Iddo, Ginnethoi, Abijah,
Nehemiah 12:5 Mijamin, Maadiah, Bilgah,
Nehemiah 12:6 Shemaiah, Joiarib, Jedaiah,
Nehemiah 12:7 Sallu, Amok, Hilkiah, Jedaiah. These were the chiefs of the priests and of their brothers in the days of Jeshua.
Nehemiah 12:8 And the Levites: Jeshua, Binnui, Kadmiel, Sherebiah, Judah, and Mattaniah, who with his brothers was in charge of the songs of thanksgiving.
Nehemiah 12:9 And Bakbukiah and Unni and their brothers stood opposite them in the service.
Nehemiah 12:10 And Jeshua was the father of Joiakim, Joiakim the father of Eliashib, Eliashib the father of Joiada,
Nehemiah 12:11 Joiada the father of Jonathan, and Jonathan the father of Jaddua.
Nehemiah 12:12  And in the days of Joiakim were priests, heads of fathers' houses: of Seraiah, Meraiah; of Jeremiah, Hananiah;
Nehemiah 12:13 of Ezra, Meshullam; of Amariah, Jehohanan;
Nehemiah 12:14 of Malluchi, Jonathan; of Shebaniah, Joseph;
Nehemiah 12:15 of Harim, Adna; of Meraioth, Helkai;
Nehemiah 12:16 of Iddo, Zechariah; of Ginnethon, Meshullam;
Nehemiah 12:17 of Abijah, Zichri; of Miniamin, of Moadiah, Piltai;
Nehemiah 12:18 of Bilgah, Shammua; of Shemaiah, Jehonathan;
Nehemiah 12:19 of Joiarib, Mattenai; of Jedaiah, Uzzi;
Nehemiah 12:20 of Sallai, Kallai; of Amok, Eber;
Nehemiah 12:21 of Hilkiah, Hashabiah; of Jedaiah, Nethanel.
Nehemiah 12:22 In the days of Eliashib, Joiada, Johanan, and Jaddua, the Levites were recorded as heads of fathers' houses; so too were the priests in the reign of Darius the Persian.
Nehemiah 12:23 As for the sons of Levi, their heads of fathers' houses were written in the Book of the Chronicles until the days of Johanan the son of Eliashib.
Nehemiah 12:24 And the chiefs of the Levites: Hashabiah, Sherebiah, and watch by watch.
Nehemiah 12:25 Mattaniah, Bakbukiah, Obadiah, Meshullam, Talmon, and Akkub were gatekeepers standing guard at the storehouses of the gates.
Nehemiah 12:26 These were in the days of Joiakim the son of Jeshua son of Jozadak, and in the days of Ezra, the priest and scribe.
Nehemiah 12:27 And at with cymbals, harps, and lyres.
Nehemiah 12:28 And the sons of the singers gathered together from the district surrounding Jerusalem and from the villages of the Netophathites;
Nehemiah 12:29 also from Beth-gilgal and from the region of Geba and Azmaveth, for the singers had built for themselves villages around Jerusalem.
Nehemiah 12:30 And the priests and the Levites purified themselves, and they purified the people and the gates and the wall.
Nehemiah 12:31 Then I brought the leaders of Judah up onto the wall and appointed two great choirs that gave thanks. the Dung Gate.
Nehemiah 12:32 And after them went Hoshaiah and half of the leaders of Judah,
Nehemiah 12:33 and Azariah, Ezra, Meshullam,
Nehemiah 12:34 Judah, Benjamin, Shemaiah, and Jeremiah,
Nehemiah 12:35 and certain of the priests' sons with trumpets: Zechariah the son of Jonathan, son of Shemaiah, son of Mattaniah, son of Micaiah, son of Zaccur, son of Asaph;
Nehemiah 12:36 and his relatives, Shemaiah, Azarel, Milalai, Gilalai, Maai, Nethanel, Judah, and Hanani, the man of God. And Ezra the scribe went before them.
Nehemiah 12:37 At the Water Gate on the east.
Nehemiah 12:38  the Broad Wall,
Nehemiah 12:39 and above the Gate of the Guard.
Nehemiah 12:40 So both choirs of those who gave thanks stood in the house of God, and I and half of the officials with me;
Nehemiah 12:41 and the priests Eliakim, Maaseiah, Miniamin, Micaiah, Elioenai, Zechariah, and Hananiah, with trumpets;
Nehemiah 12:42 and Maaseiah, Shemaiah, Eleazar, Uzzi, Jehohanan, Malchijah, Elam, and Ezer. And the singers sang with Jezrahiah as their leader.
Nehemiah 12:43 And they offered great sacrifices that day and rejoiced, for God had made them rejoice with great joy; the women and children also rejoiced. And the joy of Jerusalem was heard far away.
Nehemiah 12:44  On that day men were appointed over the storerooms, the contributions, the firstfruits, and the tithes, to gather into them the portions required by the Law for the priests and for the Levites according to the fields of the towns, for Judah rejoiced over the priests and the Levites who ministered.
Nehemiah 12:45 And they performed the service of their God and the service of purification, as did the singers and the gatekeepers, according to the command of David and his son Solomon.
Nehemiah 12:46 For long ago in the days of David and  of praise and thanksgiving to God.
Nehemiah 12:47 And all Israel in the days of Zerubbabel and in the days of Nehemiah gave the and the Levites set apart that which was for the sons of Aaron.
Nehemiah 13:1 On that day that no Ammonite or Moabite should ever enter the assembly of God,
Nehemiah 13:2 for they did not meet the people of Israel with bread and water, but hired Balaam against them to curse them — yet our God turned the curse into a blessing.
Nehemiah 13:3 As soon as the people heard the law, those of foreign descent.
Nehemiah 13:4 Now before this, Tobiah,
Nehemiah 13:5 prepared for Tobiah a large chamber where they had previously put the grain offering, the frankincense, the vessels, and the tithes of grain, wine, and oil, which were given by commandment to the Levites, singers, and gatekeepers, and the contributions for the priests.
Nehemiah 13:6 While this was taking place, I was not in Jerusalem, for king of Babylon I went to the king. And after some time I asked leave of the king
Nehemiah 13:7 and came to Jerusalem, and I then discovered the evil that Eliashib had done for Tobiah, preparing for him a chamber in the courts of the house of God.
Nehemiah 13:8 And I was very angry, and I threw all the household furniture of Tobiah out of the chamber.
Nehemiah 13:9 Then I gave orders, and they cleansed the chambers, and I brought back there the vessels of the house of God, with the grain offering and the frankincense.
Nehemiah 13:10 I also found out that to his field.
Nehemiah 13:11  “Why is the house of God forsaken?” And I gathered them together and set them in their stations.
Nehemiah 13:12 Then all Judah brought the tithe of the grain, wine, and oil into the storehouses.
Nehemiah 13:13 And for they were considered reliable, and their duty was to distribute to their brothers.
Nehemiah 13:14  Remember me, O my God, concerning this, and do not wipe out my good deeds that I have done for the house of my God and for his service.
Nehemiah 13:15 In those days I saw in Judah people treading winepresses I warned them on the day when they sold food.
Nehemiah 13:16 Tyrians also, who lived in the city, brought in fish and all kinds of goods and sold them on the Sabbath to the people of Judah, in Jerusalem itself!
Nehemiah 13:17  profaning the Sabbath day?
Nehemiah 13:18   on us and on this city? Now you are bringing more wrath on Israel by profaning the Sabbath.”
Nehemiah 13:19 As soon as it began to grow dark at the gates of Jerusalem before the Sabbath, I commanded that the doors should be shut and gave orders that they should not be opened until after the Sabbath. And I stationed some of my servants at the gates, that no load might be brought in on the Sabbath day.
Nehemiah 13:20 Then the merchants and sellers of all kinds of wares lodged outside Jerusalem once or twice.
Nehemiah 13:21  But I warned them and said to them, “Why do you lodge outside the wall? If you do so again, I will lay hands on you.” From that time on they did not come on the Sabbath.
Nehemiah 13:22 Then I commanded the Levites Remember this also in my favor, O my God, and spare me according to the greatness of your steadfast love.
Nehemiah 13:23 In those days also I saw the Jews Moab.
Nehemiah 13:24 And half of their children spoke the language of Ashdod, and they could not speak the language of Judah, but only the language of each people.
Nehemiah 13:25  And I made them take an oath in the name of God, saying, “You shall not give your daughters to their sons, or take their daughters for your sons or for yourselves.
Nehemiah 13:26  beloved by his God, and God made him king over all Israel. Nevertheless, foreign women made even him to sin.
Nehemiah 13:27 Shall we then listen to you and do all this great evil and act treacherously against our God by marrying foreign women?”
Nehemiah 13:28 And one of the sons of Sanballat the Horonite. Therefore I chased him from me.
Nehemiah 13:29  and the covenant of the priesthood and the Levites.
Nehemiah 13:30  Thus I cleansed them from everything foreign, and I established the duties of the priests and Levites, each in his work;
Nehemiah 13:31 and I providedRemember me, O my God, for good.
Esther 1:1 Now in the days of Ahasuerus, the Ahasuerus who reigned 127 provinces,
Esther 1:2 in those days when King Ahasuerus Susa, the citadel,
Esther 1:3 in the third year of his reign he gave a feast for all his officials and servants. The army of Persia and Media and the nobles and governors of the provinces were before him,
Esther 1:4 while he showed the riches of his royal glory and the splendor and pomp of his greatness for many days, 180 days.
Esther 1:5 And when these days were completed, the king gave for all the people present in Susa the citadel, both great and small, a feast lasting for seven days in the court of the garden of the king's palace.
Esther 1:6 There were white cotton curtains and violet hangings fastened with cords of fine linen and purple to silver rods couches of gold and silver on a mosaic pavement of porphyry, marble, mother-of-pearl, and precious stones.
Esther 1:7 Drinks were served in golden vessels, vessels of different kinds, and the royal wine was lavished according to the bounty of the king.
Esther 1:8 And drinking was according to this edict: “There is no compulsion.” For the king had given orders to all the staff of his palace to do as each man desired.
Esther 1:9 Queen Vashti also gave a feast for the women in the palace that belonged to King Ahasuerus.
Esther 1:10 On the seventh day, Bigtha and Abagtha, Zethar and Carkas, the seven eunuchs who served in the presence of King Ahasuerus,
Esther 1:11 to bring Queen Vashti before the king with  in order to show the peoples and the princes her beauty, for she was lovely to look at.
Esther 1:12 But Queen Vashti refused to come at the king's command delivered by the eunuchs. At this the king became enraged, and his anger burned within him.
Esther 1:13 Then the king said to who knew the times (for this was the king's procedure toward all who were versed in law and judgment,
Esther 1:14 the men next to him being Carshena, Shethar, Admatha, Tarshish, Meres, Marsena, and who saw the king's face, and sat first in the kingdom):
Esther 1:15 “According to the law, what is to be done to Queen Vashti, because she has not performed the command of King Ahasuerus delivered by the eunuchs?”
Esther 1:16 Then Memucan said in the presence of the king and the officials, “Not only against the king has Queen Vashti done wrong, but also against all the officials and all the peoples who are in all the provinces of King Ahasuerus.
Esther 1:17 For the queen's behavior will be made known to all women, causing them to look at their husbands with contempt,  since they will say, ‘King Ahasuerus commanded Queen Vashti to be brought before him, and she did not come.’
Esther 1:18 This very day the noble women of Persia and Media who have heard of the queen's behavior will say the same to all the king's officials, and there will be contempt and wrath in plenty.
Esther 1:19 If it please the king, let a royal order go out from him, and let it be written among the laws of the Persians and the Medes so that it may not be repealed, that Vashti is never again to come before King Ahasuerus. And let the king give her royal position to another who is better than she.
Esther 1:20 So when the decree made by the king is proclaimed throughout all his kingdom, for it is vast, all women will give honor to their husbands, high and low alike.”
Esther 1:21 This advice pleased the king and the princes, and the king did as Memucan proposed.
Esther 1:22 He sent letters to all the royal provinces, to every province in its own script and to every people in its own language, that every man be master in his own household and speak according to the language of his people.
Esther 2:1 After these things, and what she had done and what had been decreed against her.
Esther 2:2 Then the king's young men who attended him said, “Let beautiful young virgins be sought out for the king.
Esther 2:3 And let the king appoint officers in all the provinces of his kingdom to gather all the beautiful young virgins to the harem in Susa the citadel, under custody of Let their cosmetics be given them.
Esther 2:4 And let the young woman who pleases the king  be queen instead of Vashti.” This pleased the king, and he did so.
Esther 2:5 Now there was a Jew in Susa the citadel whose name was Mordecai, the son of Jair, son of Shimei, son of Kish, a Benjaminite,
Esther 2:6  who had been carried away from Jerusalem among the captives carried away with Jeconiah king of Judah, whom Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon had carried away.
Esther 2:7 He was bringing up Hadassah, that is Esther, the daughter of his uncle, for she had neither father nor mother. The young woman had a beautiful figure and was lovely to look at, and when her father and her mother died, Mordecai took her as his own daughter.
Esther 2:8 So when the king's order and his edict were proclaimed, and Hegai, Esther also was taken into the king's palace and put in custody of Hegai, who had charge of the women.
Esther 2:9 And the young woman pleased him and won his favor. And he quickly provided her with her cosmetics and her portion of food, and with seven chosen young women from the king's palace, and advanced her and her young women to the best place in the harem.
Esther 2:10  Esther had not made known her people or kindred, for Mordecai had commanded her not to make it known.
Esther 2:11 And every day Mordecai walked in front of the court of the harem to learn how Esther was and what was happening to her.
Esther 2:12 Now when the turn came for each young woman to go in to King Ahasuerus, after being twelve months under the regulations for the women, since this was the regular period of their beautifying, six months with oil of myrrh and six months with spices and ointments for women —
Esther 2:13 when the young woman went in to the king in this way, she was given whatever she desired to take with her from the harem to the king's palace.
Esther 2:14 In the evening she would go in, and in the morning she would return to the second harem in custody of Shaashgaz, the king's eunuch, who was in charge of the concubines. She would not go in to the king again, unless the king delighted in her and she was summoned by name.
Esther 2:15 When the turn came for Esther Hegai the king's eunuch, who had charge of the women, advised. Now Esther was winning favor in the eyes of all who saw her.
Esther 2:16 And when Esther was taken to King Ahasuerus, into his royal palace, in the tenth month, which is the month of Tebeth, in the seventh year of his reign,
Esther 2:17 the king loved Esther more than all the women, and she won grace and favor in his sight more than all the virgins, so that he set  on her head and made her queen instead of Vashti.
Esther 2:18 Then the king gave a great feast for all his officials and servants; it was Esther's feast. He also granted a remission of taxes to the provinces and gave gifts with royal generosity.
Esther 2:19 Now when the virgins were gathered together at the king's gate.
Esther 2:20  as when she was brought up by him.
Esther 2:21 In those days, as Mordecai was sitting at the king's gate, Teresh, two of the king's eunuchs, who guarded the threshold, became angry and sought to lay hands on King Ahasuerus.
Esther 2:22 And this came to the knowledge of Mordecai, and he told it to Queen Esther, and Esther told the king in the name of Mordecai.
Esther 2:23 When the affair was investigated and found to be so, the men were both hanged on the gallows. the book of the chronicles in the presence of the king.
Esther 3:1 After these things King Ahasuerus and advanced him and set his throne above all the officials who were with him.
Esther 3:2 And all the king's servants who were at the king's gate bowed down and paid homage to Haman, for the king had so commanded concerning him. But Mordecai did not bow down or pay homage.
Esther 3:3 Then the king's servants who were the king's command?”
Esther 3:4 And when they spoke to him day after day and he would not listen to them, they told Haman, in order to see whether Mordecai's words would stand, for he had told them that he was a Jew.
Esther 3:5 And when Haman saw that filled with fury.
Esther 3:6 But he disdained  all the Jews, the people of Mordecai, throughout the whole kingdom of Ahasuerus.
Esther 3:7 In the first month, which is the month of Nisan, in the twelfth year of King Ahasuerus, the month of Adar.
Esther 3:8 Then Haman said to King Ahasuerus, “There is a certain people scattered abroad and dispersed among the peoples in all the provinces of your kingdom. Their laws are different from those of every other people, and they do not keep the king's laws, so that it is not to the king's profit to tolerate them.
Esther 3:9 If it please the king, let it be decreed that they be destroyed, and I will pay 10,000 talents  of silver into the hands of those who have charge of the king's business, that they may put it into the king's treasuries.”
Esther 3:10  the enemy of the Jews.
Esther 3:11 And the king said to Haman, “The money is given to you, the people also, to do with them as it seems good to you.”
Esther 3:12  and sealed with the king's signet ring.
Esther 3:13 Letters were sent and to plunder their goods.
Esther 3:14  A copy of the document was to be issued as a decree in every province by proclamation to all the peoples to be ready for that day.
Esther 3:15  but the city of Susa was thrown into confusion.
Esther 4:1 When Mordecai learned all that had been done, Mordecai tore his clothes and put on sackcloth and ashes, and went out into the midst of the city, and he cried out with a loud and bitter cry.
Esther 4:2 He went up to the entrance of the king's gate, for no one was allowed to enter the king's gate clothed in sackcloth.
Esther 4:3 And in every province, wherever the king's command and his decree reached, there was great mourning among the Jews, lay in sackcloth and ashes.
Esther 4:4 When Esther's young women and her eunuchs came and told her, the queen was deeply distressed. She sent garments to clothe Mordecai, so that he might take off his sackcloth, but he would not accept them.
Esther 4:5 Then Esther called for Hathach, one of the king's eunuchs, who had been appointed to attend her, and ordered him to go to Mordecai to learn what this was and why it was.
Esther 4:6 Hathach went out to Mordecai in the open square of the city in front of the king's gate,
Esther 4:7 and Mordecai told him all that had happened to him, and the exact sum of money that Haman had promised to pay into the king's treasuries for the destruction of the Jews.
Esther 4:8 Mordecai also gave him  on behalf of her people.
Esther 4:9 And Hathach went and told Esther what Mordecai had said.
Esther 4:10 Then Esther spoke to Hathach and commanded him to go to Mordecai and say,
Esther 4:11 “All the king's servants and the people of the king's provinces know that if any man or woman goes to the king inside to whom the king holds out the golden scepter so that he may live. But as for me, I have not been called to come in to the king these thirty days.”
Esther 4:12 And they told Mordecai what Esther had said.
Esther 4:13 Then Mordecai told them to reply to Esther, “Do not think to yourself that in the king's palace you will escape any more than all the other Jews.
Esther 4:14 For if you keep silent at this time, relief and deliverance will rise for the Jews from another place, but you and your father's house will perish. And who knows whether you have not come to the kingdom for such a time as this?”
Esther 4:15 Then Esther told them to reply to Mordecai,
Esther 4:16 “Go, gather all the Jews to be found in Susa, and hold a fast on my behalf, and do not eat or drink for
Esther 4:17 Mordecai then went away and did everything as Esther had ordered him.
Esther 5:1  the inner court of the king's palace, in front of the king's quarters, while the king was sitting on his royal throne inside the throne room opposite the entrance to the palace.
Esther 5:2 And when the king saw Queen Esther standing in the court, and he held out to Esther the golden scepter that was in his hand. Then Esther approached and touched the tip of the scepter.
Esther 5:3 And the king said to her, “What is it, Queen Esther? What is your request? It shall be given you, even to the half of my kingdom.”
Esther 5:4 And Esther said, “If it please the king,  let the king and Haman come today to a feast that I have prepared for the king.”
Esther 5:5 Then the king said, “Bring Haman quickly, so that we may do as Esther has asked.” So the king and Haman came to the feast that Esther had prepared.
Esther 5:6
Esther 5:7 Then Esther answered, “My wish and my request is:
Esther 5:8  the feast that I will prepare for them, and tomorrow I will do as the king has said.”
Esther 5:9 And Haman went out that day that he neither rose nor trembled before him, he was filled with wrath against Mordecai.
Esther 5:10 Nevertheless, Haman restrained himself and went home, and he sent and brought his friends and his wife Zeresh.
Esther 5:11 And Haman recounted to them the splendor of his riches, the king had honored him, and how he had advanced him above the officials and the servants of the king.
Esther 5:12 Then Haman said, “Even Queen Esther let no one but me come with the king to the feast she prepared. And tomorrow also I am invited by her together with the king.
Esther 5:13 Yet all this is worth nothing to me, so long as I see Mordecai the Jew sitting at the king's gate.”
Esther 5:14 Then  high be made, and in the morning tell the king to have Mordecai hanged upon it. Then go joyfully with the king to the feast.” This idea pleased Haman, and he had the gallows made.
Esther 6:1 On that night the king could not sleep. And he gave orders to bring the book of memorable deeds, the chronicles, and they were read before the king.
Esther 6:2 And it was found written how Teresh, two of the king's eunuchs, who guarded the threshold, and who had sought to lay hands on King Ahasuerus.
Esther 6:3 And the king said, “What honor or distinction has been bestowed on Mordecai for this?” The king's young men who attended him said, “Nothing has been done for him.”
Esther 6:4 And the king said, “Who is in the court?” Now Haman had just entered  that he had prepared for him.
Esther 6:5 And the king's young men told him, “Haman is there, standing in the court.” And the king said, “Let him come in.”
Esther 6:6 So Haman came in, and the king said to him, “What should be done to the man whom the king delights to honor?” And Haman said to himself, “Whom would the king delight to honor more than me?”
Esther 6:7 And Haman said to the king, “For the man whom the king delights to honor,
Esther 6:8 let royal robes be brought, which the king has worn,  is set.
Esther 6:9 And let the robes and the horse be handed over to one of the king's most noble officials. Let them dress the man whom the king delights to honor, and let them lead him on the horse through the square of the city, proclaiming before him: ‘Thus shall it be done to the man whom the king delights to honor.’”
Esther 6:10 Then the king said to Haman, “Hurry; take the robes and the horse, as you have said, and do so to Mordecai the Jew, who sits at the king's gate. Leave out nothing that you have mentioned.”
Esther 6:11 So Haman took the robes and the horse, and he dressed Mordecai and led him through the square of the city, proclaiming before him, “Thus shall it be done to the man whom the king delights to honor.”
Esther 6:12 Then Mordecai returned to the king's gate. But Haman hurried to his house, mourning and with his head covered.
Esther 6:13 And Haman told his wife Zeresh and all his friends everything that had happened to him. Then his wise men and his wife Zeresh said to him, “If Mordecai, before whom you have begun to fall, is of the Jewish people, you will not overcome him but will surely fall before him.”
Esther 6:14 While they were yet talking with him, the king's eunuchs arrived and hurried to bring Haman to the feast that Esther had prepared.
Esther 7:1 So the king and Haman went in to feast with Queen Esther.
Esther 7:2 And on the second day, as they were drinking wine after the feast, the king again said to Esther, Even to the half of my kingdom, it shall be fulfilled.”
Esther 7:3 Then Queen Esther answered, “If I have found favor in your sight, O king, and if it please the king, let my life be granted me for my wish, and my people for my request.
Esther 7:4  to be destroyed, to be killed, and to be annihilated. If we had been sold merely as slaves, men and women, I would have been silent, for our affliction is not to be compared with the loss to the king.”
Esther 7:5 Then King Ahasuerus said to Queen Esther, “Who is he, and where is he, who has dared  to do this?”
Esther 7:6 And Esther said, “A foe and enemy! This wicked Haman!” Then Haman was terrified before the king and the queen.
Esther 7:7 And the king arose in his wrath from the wine-drinking and went into the palace garden, but Haman stayed to beg for his life from Queen Esther, for he saw that harm was determined against him by the king.
Esther 7:8 And the king returned from the couch where Esther was. And the king said, “Will he even assault the queen in my presence, in my own house?” As the word left the mouth of the king, they covered Haman's face.
Esther 7:9 Then  high.” And the king said, “Hang him on that.”
Esther 7:10  Then the wrath of the king abated.
Esther 8:1 On that day King Ahasuerus gave to Queen Esther the house of Haman, what he was to her.
Esther 8:2  And the king took off his signet ring, which he had taken from Haman, and gave it to Mordecai. And Esther set Mordecai over the house of Haman.
Esther 8:3 Then Esther spoke again to the king. She fell at his feet and wept and pleaded with him to avert the evil plan of Haman the Agagite and the plot that he had devised against the Jews.
Esther 8:4  When the king held out the golden scepter to Esther, Esther rose and stood before the king.
Esther 8:5 And she said, “If it please the king, the Agagite, the son of Hammedatha, which he wrote to destroy the Jews who are in all the provinces of the king.
Esther 8:6 For how can I bear to see the calamity that is coming to my people? Or how can I bear to see the destruction of my kindred?”
Esther 8:7 Then King Ahasuerus said to Queen Esther and to Mordecai the Jew, “Behold,  because he intended to lay hands on the Jews.
Esther 8:8 But you may write as you please with regard to the Jews, in the name of the king, cannot be revoked.”
Esther 8:9  to each province in its own script and to each people in its own language, and also to the Jews in their script and their language.
Esther 8:10  swift horses that were used in the king's service, bred from the royal stud,
Esther 8:11 saying that the king allowed the Jews who were in every city and to plunder their goods,
Esther 8:12  on one day throughout all the provinces of King Ahasuerus, on the thirteenth day of the twelfth month, which is the month of Adar.
Esther 8:13  A copy of what was written was to be issued as a decree in every province, being publicly displayed to all peoples, and the Jews were to be ready on that day to take vengeance on their enemies.
Esther 8:14 So the couriers, mounted on their swift horses that were used in the king's service, rode out hurriedly, urged by the king's command. And the decree was issued in Susa the citadel.
Esther 8:15 Then Mordecai went out from the presence of the king and the city of Susa shouted and rejoiced.
Esther 8:16 The Jews had light and gladness and joy and honor.
Esther 8:17 And in every province and in every city, wherever the king's command and his edict reached, there was gladness and joy among the Jews, a feast and for fear of the Jews had fallen on them.
Esther 9:1  on the very day when the enemies of the Jews hoped to gain the mastery over them, the reverse occurred: the Jews gained mastery over those who hated them.
Esther 9:2  for the fear of them had fallen on all peoples.
Esther 9:3 All the officials of the provinces and the satraps and the governors and the royal agents also helped the Jews, for the fear of Mordecai had fallen on them.
Esther 9:4 For Mordecai was great in the king's house, and his fame spread throughout all the provinces, for the man Mordecai grew more and more powerful.
Esther 9:5 The Jews struck all their enemies with the sword, killing and destroying them, and did as they pleased to those who hated them.
Esther 9:6 In Susa the citadel itself the Jews killed and destroyed 500 men,
Esther 9:7 and also killed Parshandatha and Dalphon and Aspatha
Esther 9:8 and Poratha and Adalia and Aridatha
Esther 9:9 and Parmashta and Arisai and Aridai and Vaizatha,
Esther 9:10  but they laid no hand on the plunder.
Esther 9:11 That very day the number of those killed in Susa the citadel was reported to the king.
Esther 9:12 And the king said to Queen Esther, “In Susa the citadel the Jews have killed and destroyed 500 men and also the ten sons of Haman. What then have they done in the rest of the king's provinces! Now what is your wish? It shall be granted you. And what further is your request? It shall be fulfilled.”
Esther 9:13 And Esther said, “If it please the king, let the Jews who are in Susa be allowed
Esther 9:14 So the king commanded this to be done. A decree was issued in Susa, and the ten sons of Haman were hanged.
Esther 9:15 The Jews who were in Susa gathered also on the fourteenth day of the month of Adar and they killed 300 men in Susa, but they laid no hands on the plunder.
Esther 9:16  gathered to defend their lives, and got relief from their enemies and killed 75,000 of those who hated them, but they laid no hands on the plunder.
Esther 9:17 This was on the thirteenth day of the month of Adar, and on the fourteenth day they rested and made that a day of feasting and gladness.
Esther 9:18 But the Jews who were in Susa gathered on the fifteenth day, making that a day of feasting and gladness.
Esther 9:19 Therefore the Jews of the villages, who live in as a day on which they send gifts of food to one another.
Esther 9:20 And Mordecai recorded these things and sent letters to all the Jews who were in all the provinces of King Ahasuerus, both near and far,
Esther 9:21 obliging them to keep the fourteenth day of the month Adar and also the fifteenth day of the same, year by year,
Esther 9:22 as the days on which the Jews got relief from their enemies, and as the month that had been turned for them from sorrow into gladness and from mourning into a holiday; that they should make them days of feasting and gladness, days for sending gifts of food to one another and gifts to the poor.
Esther 9:23 So the Jews accepted what they had started to do, and what Mordecai had written to them.
Esther 9:24 For Haman the Agagite, the son of Hammedatha, had cast Pur (that is, cast lots), to crush and to destroy them.
Esther 9:25 But when it came before the king, he gave orders in writing should return on his own head, and that he and his sons should be hanged on the gallows.
Esther 9:26 Therefore they called these days Purim, after the term this letter, and of what they had faced in this matter, and of what had happened to them,
Esther 9:27 the Jews firmly obligated themselves and their offspring and these two days according to what was written and at the time appointed every year,
Esther 9:28 that these days should be remembered and kept throughout every generation, in every clan, province, and city, and that these days of Purim should never fall into disuse among the Jews, nor should the commemoration of these days cease among their descendants.
Esther 9:29 Then Queen Esther, this second letter about Purim.
Esther 9:30 Letters were sent to all the Jews, to the 127 provinces of the kingdom of Ahasuerus, in words of peace and truth,
Esther 9:31 that these days of Purim should be observed at their appointed seasons, as Mordecai the Jew and Queen Esther obligated them, and as they had obligated themselves and their offspring, with regard to their fasts and their lamenting.
Esther 9:32 The command of Esther confirmed these practices of Purim, and it was recorded in writing.
Esther 10:1 King Ahasuerus imposed tax on the land and on the coastlands of the sea.
Esther 10:2 And all the acts of his power and might, and the full account of the high honor of Mordecai, the Book of the Chronicles of the kings of Media and Persia?
Esther 10:3 For Mordecai the Jew was sought the welfare of his people and spoke peace to all his people.
Job 1:1 There was a man in the land of turned away from evil.
Job 1:2 There were born to him seven sons and three daughters.
Job 1:3 He possessed 7,000 sheep, 3,000 camels, 500 yoke of oxen, and 500 female donkeys, and very many servants, so that this man was the greatest of all the people of the east.
Job 1:4 His sons used to go and hold a feast in the house of each one on his day, and they would send and invite their three sisters to eat and drink with them.
Job 1:5 And when the days of the feast had run their course, Job would send and  God in their hearts.” Thus Job did continually.
Job 1:6 Now there was a day when  also came among them.
Job 1:7 The LORD said to Satan, “From where have you come?” Satan answered the LORD and said, “From going to and fro on the earth, and from walking up and down on it.”
Job 1:8 And the LORD said to Satan, “Have you a blameless and upright man, who fears God and turns away from evil?”
Job 1:9 Then Satan answered the LORD and said, “Does Job fear God for no reason?
Job 1:10 Have you not put blessed the work of his hands, and his possessions have increased in the land.
Job 1:11 But to your face.”
Job 1:12 And the LORD said to Satan, “Behold, all that he has is in your hand. Only against him do not stretch out your hand.” So Satan went out from the presence of the LORD.
Job 1:13 Now there was a day when his sons and daughters were eating and drinking wine in their oldest brother's house,
Job 1:14 and there came a messenger to Job and said, “The oxen were plowing and the donkeys feeding beside them,
Job 1:15 and  with the edge of the sword, and I alone have escaped to tell you.”
Job 1:16 While he was yet speaking, there came another and said, “The fire of God fell from heaven and burned up the sheep and the servants and consumed them, and I alone have escaped to tell you.”
Job 1:17 While he was yet speaking, there came another and said, three groups and made a raid on the camels and took them and struck down the servants with the edge of the sword, and I alone have escaped to tell you.”
Job 1:18 While he was yet speaking, there came another and said, “Your sons and daughters were eating and drinking wine in their oldest brother's house,
Job 1:19 and behold, a great wind came across the wilderness and struck the four corners of the house, and it fell upon the young people, and they are dead, and I alone have escaped to tell you.”
Job 1:20 Then Job arose and and fell on the ground and worshiped.
Job 1:21 And he said, blessed be the name of the LORD.”
Job 1:22  wrong.
Job 2:1 Again there was a day when the sons of God came to present themselves before the LORD, and Satan also came among them to present himself before the LORD.
Job 2:2 And the LORD said to Satan, “From where have you come?” Satan answered the LORD and said, “From going to and fro on the earth, and from walking up and down on it.”
Job 2:3 And the LORD said to Satan, “Have you considered my servant Job, that there is none like him on the earth, a blameless and upright man, who fears God and turns away from evil? He still without reason.”
Job 2:4 Then Satan answered the LORD and said, “Skin for skin! All that a man has he will give for his life.
Job 2:5 But curse you to your face.”
Job 2:6 And the LORD said to Satan, “Behold, he is in your hand; only spare his life.”
Job 2:7 So Satan went out from the presence of the LORD and struck Job with loathsome the sole of his foot to the crown of his head.
Job 2:8 And he took the ashes.
Job 2:9 Then his wife said to him, “Do you still Curse God and die.”
Job 2:10 But he said to her, “You speak as one of the sin with his lips.
Job 2:11 Now when Job's three show him sympathy and comfort him.
Job 2:12 And when they saw him from a distance, they did not recognize him. And they raised their voices and wept, and they dust on their heads toward heaven.
Job 2:13 And they sat with him on the ground seven days and seven nights, and no one spoke a word to him, for they saw that his suffering was very great.
Job 3:1 After this Job opened his mouth and cursed the day of his birth.
Job 3:2 And Job said:
Job 3:3  “Let the day perish on which I was born, and the night that said, ‘A man is conceived.’
Job 3:4 Let that day be darkness! May God above not seek it, nor light shine upon it.
Job 3:5 Let gloom and deep darkness claim it. Let clouds dwell upon it; let the blackness of the day terrify it.
Job 3:6 That night — let thick darkness seize it! Let it not rejoice among the days of the year; let it not come into the number of the months.
Job 3:7 Behold, let that night be barren; let no joyful cry enter it.
Job 3:8 Let those curse it who curse the day, who are ready to rouse up Leviathan.
Job 3:9 Let the stars of its dawn be dark; let it hope for light, but have none, nor see the eyelids of the morning,
Job 3:10 because it did not shut the doors of my mother's womb, nor hide trouble from my eyes.
Job 3:11 “Why did I not die at birth, come out from the womb and expire?
Job 3:12 Why did the knees receive me? Or why the breasts, that I should nurse?
Job 3:13 For then I would have lain down and been quiet; I would have slept; then I would have been at rest,
Job 3:14 with kings and counselors of the earth who rebuilt ruins for themselves,
Job 3:15 or with princes who had gold, who filled their houses with silver.
Job 3:16 Or why was I not as a hidden stillborn child, as infants who never see the light?
Job 3:17 There the wicked cease from troubling, and there the weary are at rest.
Job 3:18 There the prisoners are at ease together; they hear not the voice of the taskmaster.
Job 3:19 The small and the great are there, and the slave is free from his master.
Job 3:20 “Why is light given to him who is in misery, and life to the bitter in soul,
Job 3:21 who hidden treasures,
Job 3:22 who rejoice exceedingly and are glad when they find the grave?
Job 3:23 Why is light given to a man whose hedged in?
Job 3:24 For my sighing comes groanings are poured out like water.
Job 3:25  For the thing that I fear comes upon me, and what I dread befalls me.
Job 3:26 I am not at ease, nor am I quiet; I have no rest, but trouble comes.”
Job 4:1 Then Eliphaz the Temanite answered and said:
Job 4:2 “If one ventures a word with you, will you be impatient? Yet who can keep from speaking?
Job 4:3 Behold, you have instructed many, and you have strengthened the weak hands.
Job 4:4 Your words have upheld him who was stumbling, and you have made firm the feeble knees.
Job 4:5 But now it has come to you, and you are impatient; it touches you, and you are dismayed.
Job 4:6  confidence, and the integrity of your ways your hope?
Job 4:7 “Remember: who that was innocent ever perished? Or where were the upright cut off?
Job 4:8 As I have seen, those who plow iniquity and sow trouble reap the same.
Job 4:9 By the blast of his anger they are consumed.
Job 4:10 The roar of the lion, the voice of the fierce lion, the teeth of the young lions are broken.
Job 4:11 The strong lion perishes for lack of prey, and the cubs of the lioness are scattered.
Job 4:12 “Now a word was brought to me stealthily; my ear received the whisper of it.
Job 4:13 Amid deep sleep falls on men,
Job 4:14 dread came upon me, and trembling, which made all my bones shake.
Job 4:15 A spirit glided past my face; the hair of my flesh stood up.
Job 4:16 It stood still, but I could not discern its appearance.  a voice:
Job 4:17   God? Can a man be pure before his Maker?
Job 4:18 Even in his servants he puts no trust, and his angels he charges with error;
Job 4:19 how much more those who dwell in houses of the moth.
Job 4:20 Between without anyone regarding it.
Job 4:21 Is not their tent-cord plucked up within them, do they not die, and that without wisdom?’
Job 5:1 “Call now; is there anyone who will answer you? To which of the holy ones will you turn?
Job 5:2 Surely vexation kills the fool, and jealousy slays the simple.
Job 5:3  I have seen the fool taking root, but suddenly I cursed his dwelling.
Job 5:4 His children are the gate, and there is no one to deliver them.
Job 5:5 The hungry eat his harvest, and he takes it even out of thorns,  wealth.
Job 5:6 For affliction does not come from the dust, nor does trouble sprout from the ground,
Job 5:7 but man is born to trouble as the sparks fly upward.
Job 5:8 “As for me, I would seek God, and to God would I commit my cause,
Job 5:9 whomarvelous things without number:
Job 5:10 he gives rain on the earth and sends waters on the fields;
Job 5:11 he sets on high those who are lowly, and those who mourn are lifted to safety.
Job 5:12 He frustrates the devices of the crafty, so that their hands achieve no success.
Job 5:13 He catches the wise in their own craftiness, and the schemes of the wily are brought to a quick end.
Job 5:14 They meet with darkness in the daytime and grope at noonday as in the night.
Job 5:15 But he saves the needy from the sword of their mouth and from the hand of the mighty.
Job 5:16 So the poor have hope, and injustice shuts her mouth.
Job 5:17 “Behold, Almighty.
Job 5:18 For he wounds, but he shatters, but his hands heal.
Job 5:19 He will  shall touch you.
Job 5:20  In famine he will redeem you from death, and in war from the power of the sword.
Job 5:21 You shall be hidden from the lash of the tongue, and shall not fear destruction when it comes.
Job 5:22 At destruction and famine you shall laugh, and shall not fear the beasts of the earth.
Job 5:23 For you shall be in league with the stones of the field, and the beasts of the field shall be at peace with you.
Job 5:24 You shall know that your tent is at peace, and you shall inspect your fold and miss nothing.
Job 5:25 You shall know also that your the grass of the earth.
Job 5:26 You shall come to your grave in ripe old age, like a sheaf gathered up in its season.
Job 5:27 Behold, this we have
Job 6:1 Then Job answered and said:
Job 6:2 “Oh that my vexation were weighed, and all my calamity laid in the balances!
Job 6:3 For then it would be heavier than the sand of the sea; therefore my words have been rash.
Job 6:4 For the arrows of the Almighty are in me; my spirit drinks their poison; the terrors of God are arrayed against me.
Job 6:5 Does the wild donkey bray when he has grass, or the ox low over his fodder?
Job 6:6 Can that which is tasteless be eaten without salt, or is there any taste in the juice of the mallow?
Job 6:7 My appetite refuses to touch them; they are as food that is loathsome to me.
Job 6:8 “Oh that I might have my request, and that God would fulfill my hope,
Job 6:9 that it would please God to crush me, that he would let loose his hand and cut me off!
Job 6:10 This would be my comfort; I would even exult the Holy One.
Job 6:11 What is my strength, that I should wait? And what is my end, that I should be patient?
Job 6:12 Is my strength the strength of stones, or is my flesh bronze?
Job 6:13 Have I any help in me, when resource is driven from me?
Job 6:14 “He who friend forsakes the fear of the Almighty.
Job 6:15 My streams that pass away,
Job 6:16 which are dark with ice, and where the snow hides itself.
Job 6:17 When they melt, they disappear; when it is hot, they vanish from their place.
Job 6:18 The caravans turn aside from their course; they go up into the waste and perish.
Job 6:19 The caravans of Sheba hope.
Job 6:20 They are disappointed.
Job 6:21 For you have now become nothing; you see my calamity and are afraid.
Job 6:22 Have I said, ‘Make me a gift’? Or, ‘From your wealth offer a bribe for me’?
Job 6:23 Or, ‘Deliver me from the adversary's hand’? Or, ‘Redeem me from the hand of the ruthless’?
Job 6:24 “Teach me, and I will be silent; make me understand how I have gone astray.
Job 6:25 How forceful are upright words! But what does reproof from you reprove?
Job 6:26 Do you think that you can reprove words, when the speech of a despairing man is wind?
Job 6:27 You would even cast lots over the fatherless, and bargain over your friend.
Job 6:28 “But now, be pleased to look at me, for I will not lie to your face.
Job 6:29  Please turn; let no injustice be done. Turn now; my vindication is at stake.
Job 6:30 Is there any injustice on my tongue? Cannot my palate discern the cause of calamity?
Job 7:1 “Has not man days like the days of a hired hand?
Job 7:2 Like a slave who longs for wages,
Job 7:3 so I am allotted months ofand nights of misery are apportioned to me.
Job 7:4  When I lie down I say, ‘When shall I arise?’ But the night is long, and I am full of tossing till the dawn.
Job 7:5 My flesh is clothed with breaks out afresh.
Job 7:6 My days are a weaver's shuttle and come to their end without hope.
Job 7:7 “Remember that my life is a breath; my eye will never again see good.
Job 7:8  I shall be gone.
Job 7:9 As goes down to Sheol does not come up;
Job 7:10 he place know him anymore.
Job 7:11 “Therefore I will not the bitterness of my soul.
Job 7:12 Am I the sea, or a sea monster, that you set a guard over me?
Job 7:13  When I say, ‘My bed will comfort me, my couch will ease my complaint,’
Job 7:14 then you scare me with dreams and terrify me with visions,
Job 7:15 so that I would choose strangling and death rather than my bones.
Job 7:16 I a breath.
Job 7:17  What is man, that you make so much of him, and that you set your heart on him,
Job 7:18  test him every moment?
Job 7:19 How long will you not look away from me, nor leave me alone till I swallow my spit?
Job 7:20 If I sin, what do I do to you, you watcher of mankind? Why have you made me your mark? Why have I become a burden to you?
Job 7:21 Why do you not pardon my transgression and take away my iniquity? For now I shall lie in but I shall not be.”
Job 8:1 Then Bildad the Shuhite answered and said:
Job 8:2 “How long will you say these things, and the words of your mouth be a great wind?
Job 8:3  Does God pervert justice? Or does the Almighty pervert the right?
Job 8:4 If your children have sinned against him, he has delivered them into the hand of their transgression.
Job 8:5 If you will seek God and plead with the Almighty for mercy,
Job 8:6 if you are pure and upright, surely then he will restore your rightful habitation.
Job 8:7 And though your beginning was small, your latter days will be very great.
Job 8:8 “For the fathers have searched out.
Job 8:9 For we are but of yesterday and know nothing, for our days on earth are a shadow.
Job 8:10 Will they not teach you and tell you and utter words out of their understanding?
Job 8:11 “Can papyrus grow where there is no marsh? Can reeds flourish where there is no water?
Job 8:12 While yet in flower and not cut down, they wither before any other plant.
Job 8:13 Such are the paths of all who the godless shall perish.
Job 8:14 His confidence is severed, and his trust is
Job 8:15 He leans against his house, but it does not stand; he lays hold of it, but it does not endure.
Job 8:16 He is a lush plant before the sun, and his shoots spread over his garden.
Job 8:17 His roots entwine the stone heap; he looks upon a house of stones.
Job 8:18 If he is destroyed from his seen you.’
Job 8:19 Behold, this is the joy of his way, and out of the soil others will spring.
Job 8:20 “Behold, God will not reject a blameless man, nor take the hand of evildoers.
Job 8:21 He will yet fill your mouth with laughter, and your lips with shouting.
Job 8:22 Those who hate you will be clothed with shame, and the tent of the wicked will be no more.”
Job 9:1 Then Job answered and said:
Job 9:2 “Truly I know that it is so: But how can a man be in the right before God?
Job 9:3 If one wished to contend with him, one could not answer him once in a thousand times.
Job 9:4 He is hardened himself against him, and succeeded? —
Job 9:5 he who removes mountains, and they know it not, when he overturns them in his anger,
Job 9:6 who its pillars tremble;
Job 9:7 who commands the sun, and it does not rise; who seals up the stars;
Job 9:8 who alone stretched out the heavens and trampled the waves of the sea;
Job 9:9 who and the chambers of the south;
Job 9:10 who does great things beyond searching out, and marvelous things beyond number.
Job 9:11 Behold, he passes by me, and I see him not; he moves on, but I do not perceive him.
Job 9:12 Behold, he snatches away;Who will say to him, ‘What are you doing?’
Job 9:13 “God will not turn back his anger; beneath him bowed the helpers of Rahab.
Job 9:14  answer him, choosing my words with him?
Job 9:15
Job 9:16 If I summoned him and he answered me, I would not believe that he was listening to my voice.
Job 9:17 For he crushes me with a tempest and multiplies my wounds without cause;
Job 9:18 he will not let me get my breath, but fills me with bitterness.
Job 9:19 If it is a contest of
Job 9:20 Though I am in the right, my own mouth would condemn me; though I am blameless, he would prove me perverse.
Job 9:21 I am loathe my life.
Job 9:22 It is all one; therefore I say, ‘He destroys both the blameless and the wicked.’
Job 9:23 When  of the innocent.
Job 9:24 if it is not he, who then is it?
Job 9:25 “My a runner; they flee away; they see no good.
Job 9:26 They go by like an eagle swooping on the prey.
Job 9:27 If I say, be of good cheer,’
Job 9:28 I become hold me innocent.
Job 9:29 I shall be condemned; why then do I labor in vain?
Job 9:30 If I wash myself with snow and cleanse my hands with lye,
Job 9:31 yet you will plunge me into a pit, and my own clothes will abhor me.
Job 9:32 For he is not a man, as I am, that I might answer him, that we should come to trial together.
Job 9:33   arbiter between us, who might lay his hand on us both.
Job 9:34  not dread of him terrify me.
Job 9:35 Then I would speak without fear of him, for I am not so in myself.
Job 10:1 “I the bitterness of my soul.
Job 10:2 I will say to God, Do not contend against me.
Job 10:3 and favor the designs of the wicked?
Job 10:4 Have youDo you see as man sees?
Job 10:5 Are your days as the days of man, or your years as a man's years,
Job 10:6 that you seek out my iniquity and search for my sin,
Job 10:7 although you none to deliver out of your hand?
Job 10:8  Your hands fashioned and made me, and now you have destroyed me altogether.
Job 10:9 Remember that you have made me like dust?
Job 10:10 Did you not pour me out like milk and curdle me like cheese?
Job 10:11 You clothed me with skin and flesh, and knit me together with bones and sinews.
Job 10:12 You have granted me life and steadfast love, and your care has preserved my spirit.
Job 10:13 Yet these things you hid in your heart; I know that this was your purpose.
Job 10:14 If I sin, you acquit me of my iniquity.
Job 10:15  look on my affliction.
Job 10:16 And were my head lifted up, wonders against me.
Job 10:17 You renew your bring fresh troops against me.
Job 10:18  “Why did you bring me out from the womb? Would that I had died before any eye had seen me
Job 10:19  and were as though I had not been, carried from the womb to the grave.
Job 10:20  that I may find a little cheer
Job 10:21 before I go — and deep shadow,
Job 10:22 the land of gloom like thick darkness, like deep shadow without any order, where light is as thick darkness.”
Job 11:1 Then Zophar the Naamathite answered and said:
Job 11:2 “Should a multitude of words go unanswered, and a man full of talk be judged right?
Job 11:3 Should your babble silence men, and when you mock, shall no one shame you?
Job 11:4 For  eyes.’
Job 11:5 But oh, that God would speak and open his lips to you,
Job 11:6 and that he would tell you the secrets of wisdom! For he is manifold in exacts of you less than your guilt deserves.
Job 11:7  “Can you find out the deep things of God? Can you find out the limit of the Almighty?
Job 11:8 It is  — what can you do? Deeper than Sheol — what can you know?
Job 11:9 Its measure is longer than the earth and broader than the sea.
Job 11:10 If he turn him back?
Job 11:11 For he knows worthless men; when he sees iniquity, will he not consider it?
Job 11:12 But a stupid man will get understanding when born a man!
Job 11:13 “If you stretch out your hands toward him.
Job 11:14 If iniquity is in your hand, put it far away, and let not injustice dwell in your tents.
Job 11:15 Surely then you will blemish; you will be secure and will not fear.
Job 11:16 You will forget your misery; you will remember it as waters that have passed away.
Job 11:17 And your life will be brighter than the noonday; its darkness will be like the morning.
Job 11:18 And you will feel secure, because there is hope; you will look around and take your rest in security.
Job 11:19 You will court your favor.
Job 11:20 But to breathe their last.”
Job 12:1 Then Job answered and said:
Job 12:2 “No doubt you are the people, and wisdom will die with you.
Job 12:3 But I have such things as these?
Job 12:4 I am called to God and he answered me, a just and blameless man, am a laughingstock.
Job 12:5 In the thought of one who is at ease there is contempt for misfortune; it is ready for those whose feet slip.
Job 12:6
Job 12:7 “But ask the beasts, and they will teach you; the birds of the heavens, and they will tell you;
Job 12:8 or the bushes of the earth, and they will teach you;  and the fish of the sea will declare to you.
Job 12:9 Who among all these does not know that the hand of the LORD has done this?
Job 12:10 In his hand is the life of every living thing and the breath of all mankind.
Job 12:11 Does not the ear test words as the palate tastes food?
Job 12:12 Wisdom is with the aged, and understanding in length of days.
Job 12:13   are wisdom and might; he has counsel and understanding.
Job 12:14 If he tears down, none can rebuild; if he shuts a man in, none can open.
Job 12:15 If he sends them out, they overwhelm the land.
Job 12:16 With him are strength and sound wisdom; the deceived and the deceiver are his.
Job 12:17 He leads judges he makes fools.
Job 12:18 He looses the bonds of kings and binds a waistcloth on their hips.
Job 12:19 He leads priests away stripped and overthrows the mighty.
Job 12:20 He deprives of speech those who are trusted and takes away the discernment of the elders.
Job 12:21 He pours contempt on princes and loosens the belt of the strong.
Job 12:22 He deep darkness to light.
Job 12:23 He leads them away.
Job 12:24 He takes away understanding from the chiefs of the people of the earth and makes them wander in a trackless waste.
Job 12:25 They stagger like a drunken man.
Job 13:1 “Behold, my eye has seen all this, my ear has heard and understood it.
Job 13:2  What you know, I also know; I am not inferior to you.
Job 13:3  argue my case with God.
Job 13:4 As for you,worthless physicians are you all.
Job 13:5 Oh that you would keep silent, and it would be your wisdom!
Job 13:6 Hear now my argument and listen to the pleadings of my lips.
Job 13:7 Will you deceitfully for him?
Job 13:8 Will you show partiality toward him? Will you plead the case for God?
Job 13:9 Will it be well with you when he can you deceive him, as one deceives a man?
Job 13:10 He will surely rebuke you if in secret you show partiality.
Job 13:11 Will not his majesty terrify you, and the dread of him fall upon you?
Job 13:12 Your maxims are proverbs of ashes; your defenses are defenses of clay.
Job 13:13 “Let me have silence, and I will speak, and let come on me what may.
Job 13:14 Why should I take my flesh in my teeth and put my life in my hand?
Job 13:15  argue my ways to his face.
Job 13:16 This will be my salvation, that the godless shall not come before him.
Job 13:17  Keep listening to my words, and let my declaration be in your ears.
Job 13:18 Behold, I have prepared my case; I know that I shall be in the right.
Job 13:19  Who is there who will contend with me? For then I would be silent and die.
Job 13:20 Only grant me two things, then I will not hide myself from your face:
Job 13:21  dread of you terrify me.
Job 13:22  Then call, and I will answer; or let me speak, and you reply to me.
Job 13:23 How many are my iniquities and my sins? Make me know my transgression and my sin.
Job 13:24 Why count me as your enemy?
Job 13:25 Will you frighten chaff?
Job 13:26 For you the iniquities of my youth.
Job 13:27 You put my feet in  the soles of my feet.
Job 13:28 Man moth-eaten.
Job 14:1 “Man who is full of trouble.
Job 14:2 He comes out like a shadow and continues not.
Job 14:3 And do you bring me into judgment with you?
Job 14:4 Who can bring a clean thing out of an unclean? There is not one.
Job 14:5 Since his the number of his months is with you, and you have appointed his limits that he cannot pass,
Job 14:6  a hired hand, his day.
Job 14:7 “For there is hope for a tree, if it be cut down, that it will sprout again, and that its shoots will not cease.
Job 14:8 Though its root grow old in the earth, and its stump die in the soil,
Job 14:9 yet at the scent of water it will bud and put out branches like a young plant.
Job 14:10 But a man dies and is laid low; man breathes his last, and where is he?
Job 14:11  As waters fail from a lake and a river wastes away and dries up,
Job 14:12 so a man lies down and rises not again; till roused out of his sleep.
Job 14:13 Oh that you would until your wrath be past, that you would appoint me a set time, and remember me!
Job 14:14 If a man dies, shall he live again? All the days of my  should come.
Job 14:15 You would work of your hands.
Job 14:16 For then you would watch over my sin;
Job 14:17 my transgression would be sealed up in a bag, and you would cover over my iniquity.
Job 14:18 “But the mountain falls and the rock is removed from its place;
Job 14:19 the waters wear away the stones; the torrents wash away the soil of the earth; so you destroy the hope of man.
Job 14:20 You prevail forever against him, and he passes; you change his countenance, and send him away.
Job 14:21 His sons come to honor, and he does not know it; they are brought low, and he perceives it not.
Job 14:22 He feels only the pain of his own body, and he mourns only for himself.”
Job 15:1 Then Eliphaz the Temanite answered and said:
Job 15:2 “Should the east wind?
Job 15:3 Should he argue in unprofitable talk, or in words with which he can do no good?
Job 15:4 But you are doing away with the fear of God  and hindering meditation before God.
Job 15:5 For your iniquity teaches your mouth, and you choose the tongue of the crafty.
Job 15:6 Youryour own lips testify against you.
Job 15:7  before the hills?
Job 15:8 Have you listened in the council of God? And do you limit wisdom to yourself?
Job 15:9  What do you know that we do not know? What do you understand that is not clear to us?
Job 15:10  Both the gray-haired and the aged are among us, older than your father.
Job 15:11 Are the comforts of God too small for you, or the word that deals gently with you?
Job 15:12 Why does your heart carry you away, and why do your eyes flash,
Job 15:13 that you turn your spirit against God and bring such words out of your mouth?
Job 15:14  born of a woman, that he can be righteous?
Job 15:15 Behold, God holy ones, and the heavens are not pure in his sight;
Job 15:16  drinks injustice like water!
Job 15:17 “I will show you; hear me, and what I have seen I will declare
Job 15:18 (what wise men have told, without hiding it from their fathers,
Job 15:19 to whom alone the land was given, and no stranger passed among them).
Job 15:20 The wicked man writhes in pain all his days, through all the the ruthless.
Job 15:21  prosperity the destroyer will come upon him.
Job 15:22 He does not believe that he will return out of darkness, and he is marked for the sword.
Job 15:23 He wanders abroad for bread, saying, ‘Where is it?’ He knows that a day of darkness is ready at his hand;
Job 15:24 distress and anguish terrify him; they prevail against him, like a king ready for battle.
Job 15:25 Because he has stretched out his hand against God and defies the Almighty,
Job 15:26  stubbornly against him with a thickly bossed shield;
Job 15:27 because he has covered his face with his fat and gathered fat upon his waist
Job 15:28 and has lived in desolate cities, in houses that none should inhabit, which were ready to become heaps of ruins;
Job 15:29 he will not be rich, and his wealth will not endure, nor will his possessions spread over the earth;
Job 15:30 he will not depart from darkness; the flame will dry up his shoots, and by the breath of his mouth he will depart.
Job 15:31 Let him not trust in emptiness, deceiving himself, for emptiness will be his payment.
Job 15:32 It will be paid in full before his time, and his branch will not be green.
Job 15:33 He will shake off his unripe grape like the vine, and cast off his blossom like the olive tree.
Job 15:34 For fire consumes the tents of bribery.
Job 15:35 They womb prepares deceit.”
Job 16:1 Then Job answered and said:
Job 16:2 “I have heardmiserable comforters are you all.
Job 16:3 Shall windy words have an end? Or what provokes you that you answer?
Job 16:4 I also could speak as you do, if you were in my place; I could join words together against you and shake my head at you.
Job 16:5 I could strengthen you with my mouth, and the solace of my lips would assuage your pain.
Job 16:6 “If I speak, my pain is not assuaged, and if I forbear, how much of it leaves me?
Job 16:7 Surely now God has worn me out;   made desolate all my company.
Job 16:8 And he has shriveled me up, which is leanness has risen up against me; it testifies to my face.
Job 16:9 He has gnashed his teeth at me; my adversary sharpens his eyes against me.
Job 16:10 Men have mass themselves together against me.
Job 16:11 God gives me up to the ungodly and casts me into the hands of the wicked.
Job 16:12 I was at ease, and he broke me apart; he seized me by the neck and dashed me to pieces; he set me up as his target;
Job 16:13 his pours out my gall on the ground.
Job 16:14 He breaks me with runs upon me like a warrior.
Job 16:15 I have sewed in the dust.
Job 16:16 My face is red with weeping, and on my eyelids is deep darkness,
Job 16:17 although there is no violence in my hands, and my prayer is pure.
Job 16:18 “O earth, cry find no resting place.
Job 16:19 Even now, behold, my on high.
Job 16:20 My friends scorn me; my eye pours out tears to God,
Job 16:21 that he would  a son of man does with his neighbor.
Job 16:22 For when a few years have come I shall go the way from which I shall not return.
Job 17:1 “My spirit is broken; my days arethe graveyard is ready for me.
Job 17:2 Surely there are mockers about me, and my eye dwells on their provocation.
Job 17:3 “Lay down a pledge for me with you; who is there who will put up security for me?
Job 17:4 Since you have closed their hearts to understanding, therefore you will not let them triumph.
Job 17:5 He who informs against his friends to get a share of their property — the eyes of his children will fail.
Job 17:6 “He has made me a byword of the peoples, and I am one before whom men spit.
Job 17:7 My a shadow.
Job 17:8 The upright are appalled at this, and the innocent stirs himself up against the godless.
Job 17:9 Yet the righteous holds to his way, and he who has clean hands grows stronger and stronger.
Job 17:10 But you, come on again, all of you, and I shall not find a wise man among you.
Job 17:11 My days are past; my plans are broken off, the desires of my heart.
Job 17:12 They
Job 17:13 If I hope for my house, if I make my bed in darkness,
Job 17:14 if I say to the pit, ‘You are my father,’ and to the worm, ‘My mother,’ or ‘My sister,’
Job 17:15 where then is my hope? Who will see my hope?
Job 17:16 Will it go down to the bars of
Job 18:1 Then Bildad the Shuhite answered and said:
Job 18:2 “How long will you hunt for words? Consider, and then we will speak.
Job 18:3 Why are we counted as cattle? Why are we stupid in your sight?
Job 18:4 You who the rock be removed out of its place?
Job 18:5 “Indeed, the light of the wicked is put out, and the flame of his fire does not shine.
Job 18:6 The light is dark in his tent, and his lamp above him is put out.
Job 18:7 His strong steps are shortened, and his own schemes throw him down.
Job 18:8 For he is cast into a net by his own feet, and he walks on its mesh.
Job 18:9  A trap seizes him by the heel; a snare lays hold of him.
Job 18:10 A rope is hidden for him in the ground, a trap for him in the path.
Job 18:11  Terrors frighten him on every side, and chase him at his heels.
Job 18:12 His strength is famished, and calamity is ready for his stumbling.
Job 18:13 It consumes the parts of his skin; the firstborn of death consumes his limbs.
Job 18:14 He is torn from the tent in which he trusted and is brought to the king of terrors.
Job 18:15 In his tent dwells that which is none of his; sulfur is scattered over his habitation.
Job 18:16 His wither above.
Job 18:17 His memory perishes from the earth, and he has no name in the street.
Job 18:18  He is thrust from light into darkness, and driven out of the world.
Job 18:19 He has no posterity or progeny among his people, and no survivor where he used to live.
Job 18:20 They of the west are appalled at his horror seizes them of the east.
Job 18:21 Surely such are the dwellings of the unrighteous, such is the place of him who knows not God.”
Job 19:1 Then Job answered and said:
Job 19:2 “How long will you torment me and break me in pieces with words?
Job 19:3 These ten times you have cast reproach upon me; are you not ashamed to wrong me?
Job 19:4 And even if it be true that I have erred, my error remains with myself.
Job 19:5 If indeed you magnify yourselves against me and make my disgrace an argument against me,
Job 19:6 know then that God has put me in the wrong and closed his net about me.
Job 19:7 Behold, I cry out, ‘Violence!’ but I am not answered; I call for help, but there is no justice.
Job 19:8 He has walled up my way, so that I cannot pass, and he has set darkness upon my paths.
Job 19:9 He has crown from my head.
Job 19:10 He breaks me down on every side, and I am gone, and my hope has he pulled up like a tree.
Job 19:11 He has kindled his wrath against me and counts me as his adversary.
Job 19:12 His  against me and encamp around my tent.
Job 19:13 “He has put my those who knew me are wholly estranged from me.
Job 19:14 My relatives friends have forgotten me.
Job 19:15 The guests in my house and my maidservants count me as a stranger; I have become a foreigner in their eyes.
Job 19:16 I call to my servant, but he gives me no answer; I must plead with him with my mouth for mercy.
Job 19:17 My breath is strange to my my own mother.
Job 19:18 Even young children despise me; when I rise they talk against me.
Job 19:19 All my intimate friends abhor me, and those whom I loved have turned against me.
Job 19:20 My bones stick to my skin and to my flesh, and I have escaped by the skin of my teeth.
Job 19:21 Have mercy on me, have mercy on me, O you my friends, for the hand of God has touched me!
Job 19:22 Why do you, like God, pursue me? Why are you not satisfied with my flesh?
Job 19:23 “Oh that my words were written! Oh that they were inscribed in a book!
Job 19:24 Oh that with an iron pen and lead they were engraved in the rock forever!
Job 19:25 For I
Job 19:26 And after my skin has been thus destroyed, yet in see God,
Job 19:27 whom I shall see for myself, and my eyes shall behold, and not faints within me!
Job 19:28 If you say, ‘How we will
Job 19:29 be afraid of the sword, for wrath brings the punishment of the sword, that you may know there is a judgment.”
Job 20:1 Then Zophar the Naamathite answered and said:
Job 20:2 “Therefore my thoughts answer me, because of my haste within me.
Job 20:3 I hear censure that insults me, and out of my understanding a spirit answers me.
Job 20:4 Do you not know this from of old, since man was placed on earth,
Job 20:5  that the exulting of the wicked is short, and the joy of the godless but for a moment?
Job 20:6  Though his height mount up to the heavens, and his head reach to the clouds,
Job 20:7 he will perish forever like his own ‘Where is he?’
Job 20:8 He will fly away like a dream and not be found; he will be chased away like a vision of the night.
Job 20:9  The eye that saw him will see him no more, nor will his place any more behold him.
Job 20:10 His children will seek the favor of the poor, and his hands will give back his wealth.
Job 20:11 His bones are full of his down with him in the dust.
Job 20:12 “Though evil is sweet in his mouth, though he hides it under his tongue,
Job 20:13 though he is loath to let it go and holds it in his mouth,
Job 20:14 yet his food is turned in his stomach; it is the venom of cobras within him.
Job 20:15 He swallows down riches and vomits them up again; God casts them out of his belly.
Job 20:16 He will suck the poison of cobras; the tongue of a viper will kill him.
Job 20:17 He will not look upon curds.
Job 20:18 He will swallow it down; from the profit of his trading he will get no enjoyment.
Job 20:19 For he has crushed and abandoned the poor; he has seized a house that he did not build.
Job 20:20 “Because hehe will not let anything in which he delights escape him.
Job 20:21 There was nothing left after he had eaten; therefore his prosperity will not endure.
Job 20:22 In the fullness of his sufficiency he will be in distress; the hand of everyone in misery will come against him.
Job 20:23 To fill his belly to the full, God into his body.
Job 20:24  him through.
Job 20:25 Itterrors come upon him.
Job 20:26 Utter darkness is laid up for his treasures; a fire not fanned will devour him; what is left in his tent will be consumed.
Job 20:27  The heavens will reveal his iniquity, and the earth will rise up against him.
Job 20:28 The possessions of his house will be carried away, dragged off in the day of God's  wrath.
Job 20:29 the heritage decreed for him by God.”
Job 21:1 Then Job answered and said:
Job 21:2  “Keep listening to my words, and let this be your comfort.
Job 21:3 Bear with me, and I will speak, and after I have spoken, mock on.
Job 21:4 As for me, is my complaint against man? Why should I not be impatient?
Job 21:5 Look at me and be appalled, and lay your hand over your mouth.
Job 21:6 When I remember, I am dismayed, and shuddering seizes my flesh.
Job 21:7  Why do the wicked live, reach old age, and grow mighty in power?
Job 21:8 Their offspring are established in their presence, and their descendants before their eyes.
Job 21:9 Their houses are no rod of God is upon them.
Job 21:10 Their bull breeds without fail; their cow calves and does not miscarry.
Job 21:11 They send out their little boys like a flock, and their children dance.
Job 21:12 They sing to the pipe.
Job 21:13 They Sheol.
Job 21:14 They say to God, ‘Depart from us! We do not desire the knowledge of your ways.
Job 21:15  profit do we get if we pray to him?’
Job 21:16 Behold, is not their prosperity in their hand? The counsel of the wicked is far from me.
Job 21:17 “How often is it that  distributes pains in his anger?
Job 21:18 That they are like chaff that the storm carries away?
Job 21:19 You say, ‘God know it.
Job 21:20 Let their own eyes see their destruction, and let them drink of the wrath of the Almighty.
Job 21:21 For what do they care for their houses after them, when the number of their months is cut off?
Job 21:22  judges those who are on high?
Job 21:23 One dies in his full vigor, being wholly at ease and secure,
Job 21:24 his pails the marrow of his bones moist.
Job 21:25 Another dies in bitterness of soul, never having tasted of prosperity.
Job 21:26 They the worms cover them.
Job 21:27 “Behold, I know your thoughts and your schemes to wrong me.
Job 21:28 For you say, the tent in which the wicked lived?’
Job 21:29 Have you not asked those who travel the roads, and do you not accept their testimony
Job 21:30 that the evil man is spared in the day of calamity, that he is rescued in the day of wrath?
Job 21:31 Who declares his way repays him for what he has done?
Job 21:32 When he is carried to the grave, watch is kept over his tomb.
Job 21:33 all mankind follows after him, and those who go before him are innumerable.
Job 21:34 How then will you comfort me with empty nothings? There is nothing left of your answers but falsehood.”
Job 22:1 Then Eliphaz the Temanite answered and said:
Job 22:2  “Can a man be profitable to God? Surely he who is wise is profitable to himself.
Job 22:3 Is it any pleasure to the Almighty if you are in the right, or is it gain to him if you make your ways blameless?
Job 22:4 Is it for your fear of him that he reproves you and enters into judgment with you?
Job 22:5 Is not your evil abundant? There is no end to your iniquities.
Job 22:6 For you haveand stripped the naked of their clothing.
Job 22:7 You have given no water to the weary to drink, and you have withheld bread from the hungry.
Job 22:8  the favored man lived in it.
Job 22:9 You have the fatherless were crushed.
Job 22:10 Therefore snares are all around you, and sudden terror overwhelms you,
Job 22:11 or water covers you.
Job 22:12 “Is not God high in the heavens? See the highest stars, how lofty they are!
Job 22:13 But you say, the deep darkness?
Job 22:14  Thick clouds veil him, so that he does not see, and he walks on the vault of heaven.’
Job 22:15 Will you keep to the old way that wicked men have trod?
Job 22:16 They were snatched away
Job 22:17 They said to God,
Job 22:18 Yet he filled their houses with good things — but the counsel of the wicked is far from me.
Job 22:19  mocks at them,
Job 22:20 saying, ‘Surely our adversaries are cut off, and what they left the fire has consumed.’
Job 22:21  be at peace; thereby good will come to you.
Job 22:22 Receive instruction from lay up his words in your heart.
Job 22:23 If you remove injustice far from your tents,
Job 22:24 if you lay gold in Ophir among the stones of the torrent-bed,
Job 22:25 then the Almighty will be your gold and your precious silver.
Job 22:26 For then you lift up your face to God.
Job 22:27 You will pay your vows.
Job 22:28 You will decide on a matter, and it will be established for you, and light will shine on your ways.
Job 22:29 For when they are humbled you say, ‘It is because of pride’; the lowly.
Job 22:30 He the cleanness of your hands.”
Job 23:1 Then Job answered and said:
Job 23:2 “Today also my hand is heavy on account of my groaning.
Job 23:3 Oh, seat!
Job 23:4 I would lay my case before him and fill my mouth with arguments.
Job 23:5 I would know what he would answer me and understand what he would say to me.
Job 23:6 Would he contend with me in the greatness of his power? No; he would pay attention to me.
Job 23:7 There an upright man could argue with him, and I would be acquitted forever by my judge.
Job 23:8 “Behold, I go forward, but he is not there, and backward, but I do not perceive him;
Job 23:9 on the left hand when he is working, I do not behold him; he turns to the right hand, but I do not see him.
Job 23:10 But he tried me, I shall come out as gold.
Job 23:11 My foot not turned aside.
Job 23:12 I have not departed from the commandment of his lips; I have portion of food.
Job 23:13 But he is unchangeable, desires, that he does.
Job 23:14 For he will complete what he in his mind.
Job 23:15 Therefore I am terrified at his presence; when I consider, I am in dread of him.
Job 23:16 God has made my heart faint; the Almighty has terrified me;
Job 23:17 yet I am not silenced because of the darkness, nor because thick darkness covers my face.
Job 24:1 “Why are days?
Job 24:2 Some move landmarks; they seize flocks and pasture them.
Job 24:3 They drive away the donkey of the fatherless; they take the widow's ox for a pledge.
Job 24:4 They all hide themselves.
Job 24:5 Behold, like wild donkeys in the desert the poor seeking game; the wasteland yields food for their children.
Job 24:6 They gather their  fodder in the field, and they glean the vineyard of the wicked man.
Job 24:7 They lie all night naked, without clothing, and have no covering in the cold.
Job 24:8 They are wet with the rain of the mountains and cling to the rock for lack of shelter.
Job 24:9 (There are those who snatch the fatherless child from the breast, and they take a pledge against the poor.)
Job 24:10 They go about naked, without clothing; hungry, they carry the sheaves;
Job 24:11 among the olive rows of the wicked  they make oil; they tread the winepresses, but suffer thirst.
Job 24:12 From out of the city the dying wrong.
Job 24:13 “There are those who rebel against the light, who are not acquainted with its ways, and do not stay in its paths.
Job 24:14 The murderer rises before it is light, that he may kill the poor and needy, and in the night he is like a thief.
Job 24:15 The eye of the adulterer also waits for eye will see me’; and he veils his face.
Job 24:16 In the dark they dig through houses; by day they shut themselves up; they do not know the light.
Job 24:17 For deep darkness is morning to all of them; for they are friends with the terrors of deep darkness.
Job 24:18 “You say, ‘Swift are they on the face of the waters; their portion is cursed in the land; no treader turns toward their vineyards.
Job 24:19 Drought and heat snatch away the snow waters; so does Sheol those who have sinned.
Job 24:20 The womb forgets them; the worm finds them sweet; they are a tree.’
Job 24:21 “They wrong the barren, childless woman, and do no good to the widow.
Job 24:22 Yet God  prolongs the life of the mighty by his power; they rise up when they despair of life.
Job 24:23 He gives them security, and they are supported, and his eyes are upon their ways.
Job 24:24 They are exalted cut off like the heads of grain.
Job 24:25 If it is not so, who will prove me a liar and show that there is nothing in what I say?”
Job 25:1 Then Bildad the Shuhite answered and said:
Job 25:2 “Dominion and fear are with God;  he makes peace in his high heaven.
Job 25:3 Is there any number to his light not arise?
Job 25:4 How then can man be pure?
Job 25:5 Behold, even the moon is not bright, and the stars are not pure in his eyes;
Job 25:6  the son of man, who is a worm!”
Job 26:1 Then Job answered and said:
Job 26:2 “How you have the arm that has no strength!
Job 26:3 How you have counseled him who has no wisdom, and plentifully declared sound knowledge!
Job 26:4 With whose help have you uttered words, and whose breath has come out from you?
Job 26:5 The dead tremble under the waters and their inhabitants.
Job 26:6 Sheol is Abaddon has no covering.
Job 26:7 He the void and hangs the earth on nothing.
Job 26:8 He binds up the waters in his thick clouds, and the cloud is not split open under them.
Job 26:9 He covers the face of the full moon spreads over it his cloud.
Job 26:10 He has inscribed a circle on the face of the waters at the boundary between light and darkness.
Job 26:11  rebuke.
Job 26:12 By his power he Rahab.
Job 26:13  the fleeing serpent.
Job 26:14 Behold, these are but the outskirts of his a whisper do we hear of him! But the thunder of his power who can understand?”
Job 27:1 And Job again took up his discourse, and said:
Job 27:2 “As God lives, who has made my soul bitter,
Job 27:3 as long as my breath is in me, and the spirit of God is in my nostrils,
Job 27:4 my lips will not speak deceit.
Job 27:5 Far be it from me to say that you are right; till I die I will not put away my integrity from me.
Job 27:6 I reproach me for any of my days.
Job 27:7 “Let my enemy be as the wicked, and let him who rises up against me be as the unrighteous.
Job 27:8  when God cuts him off, when God takes away his life?
Job 27:9  Will God hear his cry when distress comes upon him?
Job 27:10 Will he take delight in the Almighty? Will he call upon God at all times?
Job 27:11 I will teach you concerning the hand of God; what is with the Almighty I will not conceal.
Job 27:12 Behold, all of you have seen it yourselves; why then have you become altogether vain?
Job 27:13  oppressors receive from the Almighty:
Job 27:14 If his the sword, and his descendants have not enough bread.
Job 27:15 Those who survive him the pestilence buries, and his widows do not weep.
Job 27:16 Though he heap up silver like dust, and pile up clothing like clay,
Job 27:17 he may pile it up, but the righteous will wear it, and the innocent will divide the silver.
Job 27:18 He builds his a watchman makes.
Job 27:19 He goes to bed rich, but will his wealth is gone.
Job 27:20  carries him off.
Job 27:21  sweeps him out of his place.
Job 27:22 It  power in headlong flight.
Job 27:23 It hisses at him from its place.
Job 28:1 “Surely there is a mine for silver, and a place for gold that they refine.
Job 28:2 Iron is taken out of the earth, and copper is smelted from the ore.
Job 28:3 Man puts an end to darkness and searches out to the farthest limit the ore in deep darkness.
Job 28:4 He opens shafts in a valley away from where anyone lives; they are forgotten by travelers; they hang in the air, far away from mankind; they swing to and fro.
Job 28:5 As for the earth, out of it comes bread, but underneath it is turned up as by fire.
Job 28:6 Its stones are the place of  and it has dust of gold.
Job 28:7 “That path no bird of prey knows, and the falcon's eye has not seen it.
Job 28:8 the lion has not passed over it.
Job 28:9 “Man puts his hand to the flinty rock and overturns mountains by the roots.
Job 28:10 He cuts out channels in the rocks, and his eye sees every precious thing.
Job 28:11 He dams up the streams so that they do not trickle, and the thing that is hidden he brings out to light.
Job 28:12  “But where shall wisdom be found? And where is the place of understanding?
Job 28:13 Man does not know its worth, and it is not found in the land of the living.
Job 28:14  The deep says, ‘It is not in me,’ and the sea says, ‘It is not with me.’
Job 28:15 It cannot be bought for gold, and silver cannot be weighed as its price.
Job 28:16 It cannot be valued in sapphire.
Job 28:17 Gold and glass cannot equal it, nor can it be exchanged for jewels of fine gold.
Job 28:18 No mention shall be made of pearls.
Job 28:19  The topaz of Ethiopia cannot equal it, nor can it be valued in pure gold.
Job 28:20 “From where, then, does wisdom come? And where is the place of understanding?
Job 28:21 It is hidden from the eyes of all living and concealed from the birds of the air.
Job 28:22  Abaddon and Death say, ‘We have heard a rumor of it with our ears.’
Job 28:23  “God understands the way to it, and he knows its place.
Job 28:24 For he looks to the ends of the earth and sees everything under the heavens.
Job 28:25 When he gave to the wind its weight and apportioned the waters by measure,
Job 28:26 when he made a decree for the rain and a way for the lightning of the thunder,
Job 28:27 then he saw it and declared it; he established it, and searched it out.
Job 28:28 And he said to man, ‘Behold, turn away from evil is understanding.’”
Job 29:1 And Job again took up his discourse, and said:
Job 29:2 “Oh, that I were as in the months of old, as in the days when God watched over me,
Job 29:3 when his lamp shone upon my head, and by his light I walked through darkness,
Job 29:4 as I was in my prime, friendship of God was upon my tent,
Job 29:5 when the Almighty was yet with me, when my children were all around me,
Job 29:6 when my steps were oil!
Job 29:7 When I went out to the gate of the city, when I prepared my seat in the square,
Job 29:8 the young men saw me and withdrew, and the aged rose and stood;
Job 29:9 the princes refrained from talking and laid their hand on their mouth;
Job 29:10 the voice of the nobles was hushed, and their tongue stuck to the roof of their mouth.
Job 29:11 When the ear heard, it called me blessed, and when the eye saw, it approved,
Job 29:12 because I delivered the poor who cried for help, and the fatherless who had none to help him.
Job 29:13  the widow's heart to sing for joy.
Job 29:14 I a turban.
Job 29:15 I was eyes to the blind and feet to the lame.
Job 29:16 I was a father to the needy, and I searched out the cause of him whom I did not know.
Job 29:17 I the fangs of the unrighteous and made him drop his prey from his teeth.
Job 29:18  the sand,
Job 29:19 my branches,
Job 29:20 my glory fresh with me, and my new in my hand.’
Job 29:21 “Men listened to me and waited and kept silence for my counsel.
Job 29:22 After I spoke they did not speak again, and my word dropped upon them.
Job 29:23 They waited for me as for the rain, and they spring rain.
Job 29:24 I smiled on them when they had no confidence, and face they did not cast down.
Job 29:25 I chose their way and sat as chief, and I lived like a king among his troops, like one who comforts mourners.
Job 30:1 “But now they younger than I, whose fathers I would have disdained to set with the dogs of my flock.
Job 30:2 What could I gain from the strength of their hands,  vigor is gone?
Job 30:3 Through want and hard hunger they waste and desolation;
Job 30:4 they pick saltwort and the leaves of bushes, and the roots of the broom tree for their food.
Job 30:5  They are driven out from human company; they shout after them as after a thief.
Job 30:6 In the gullies of the torrents they must dwell, in holes of the earth and of the rocks.
Job 30:7 Among the bushes they the nettles they huddle together.
Job 30:8 A senseless, a nameless brood, they have been whipped out of the land.
Job 30:9 “And now I have become their a byword to them.
Job 30:10 They spit at the sight of me.
Job 30:11 Because God has loosed my cord and humbled me, they have cast off restraint  in my presence.
Job 30:12 On my cast up against me their ways of destruction.
Job 30:13 They break up my path; they promote my calamity; they need no one to help them.
Job 30:14 As through a wide breach they come; amid the crash they roll on.
Job 30:15  a cloud.
Job 30:16 “And now my soul is poured out within me; days of affliction have taken hold of me.
Job 30:17  gnaws me takes no rest.
Job 30:18 With great force my garment is disfigured; it binds me about like the collar of my tunic.
Job 30:19 God dust and ashes.
Job 30:20 I cry to you for help and you do not answer me; I stand, and you only look at me.
Job 30:21 You have persecute me.
Job 30:22  You lift me up on the wind; you make me ride on it, and you toss me about in the roar of the storm.
Job 30:23  all living.
Job 30:24 “Yet does not one in a
Job 30:25 Did not I weep for him whose day was hard? Was not my soul grieved for the needy?
Job 30:26 But darkness came.
Job 30:27 My inward parts are in turmoil and never still; days of affliction come to meet me.
Job 30:28 I the assembly and cry for help.
Job 30:29 I am a brother of ostriches.
Job 30:30 My bones burn with heat.
Job 30:31 My pipe to the voice of those who weep.
Job 31:1 “I have made a covenant with my eyes; how then could I gaze at a virgin?
Job 31:2 What would be my heritage from the Almighty on high?
Job 31:3 Is not calamity for the unrighteous, and disaster for the workers of iniquity?
Job 31:4  number all my steps?
Job 31:5 “If I have walked with falsehood and my foot has hastened to deceit;
Job 31:6 (Let me be weighed in a just balance, and let God know my integrity!)
Job 31:7 if my step has turned aside from the way and spot has stuck to my hands,
Job 31:8 then let me  be rooted out.
Job 31:9 “If my heart has been enticed toward a woman, and I have lain in wait at my neighbor's door,
Job 31:10 then let my wife bow down on her.
Job 31:11 For that would be a heinous crime; that would be an iniquity to be punished by the judges;
Job 31:12 for that would be a fire that consumes as far as Abaddon, and it would burn to the root all my increase.
Job 31:13 “If I have rejected the cause of my manservant or my maidservant, when they brought a complaint against me,
Job 31:14 what then shall I do when God rises up? When he makes inquiry, what shall I answer him?
Job 31:15 Did not he who made me in the womb make him? And did not one fashion us in the womb?
Job 31:16 “If I have caused the eyes of the widow to fail,
Job 31:17 or have eaten my morsel alone, and the fatherless has not eaten of it
Job 31:18 (for from my youth the fatherless ),
Job 31:19 if I have seen anyone covering,
Job 31:20 if his body has not  and if he was not warmed with the fleece of my sheep,
Job 31:21 if I have raised my hand against the gate,
Job 31:22 then let my shoulder blade fall from my shoulder, and let my arm be broken from its socket.
Job 31:23 For I was majesty.
Job 31:24  fine gold my confidence,
Job 31:25 if I have my hand had found much,
Job 31:26  the moon moving in splendor,
Job 31:27 and my heart has been secretly enticed, and my mouth has kissed my hand,
Job 31:28 this also would be an iniquity to be punished by the judges, for I would have been false to God above.
Job 31:29 “If I have rejoiced at the ruin of him who hated me, or exulted when evil overtook him
Job 31:30 (I have not let my mouth sin by asking for his life with a curse),
Job 31:31 if the men of my tent have not said, ‘Who is there that has not been filled with his meat?’
Job 31:32 (the sojourner has not lodged in the street; I have opened my doors to the traveler),
Job 31:33 if I  by hiding my iniquity in my heart,
Job 31:34 because I stood in great fear of the multitude, and the contempt of families terrified me, so that I kept silence, and did not go out of doors —
Job 31:35 Oh, that I had one to hear me! (Here is my signature! Let the Almighty the indictment written by my adversary!
Job 31:36 Surely I would carry it on my a crown;
Job 31:37 I would give him an account of all my steps; like a prince I would approach him.
Job 31:38 “If my land has cried out against me and its furrows have wept together,
Job 31:39  breathe their last,
Job 31:40 let thorns grow instead of wheat, and foul weeds instead of barley.”  The words of Job are ended.
Job 32:1 So these three men ceased to answer Job, because he was righteous in his own eyes.
Job 32:2 Then Elihu the son of Barachel rather than God.
Job 32:3 He burned with anger also at Job's three friends because they had found no answer, although they had declared Job to be in the wrong.
Job 32:4 Now Elihu had waited to speak to Job because they were older than he.
Job 32:5 And when Elihu saw that there was no answer in the mouth of these three men, he burned with anger.
Job 32:6 And Elihu the son of Barachel the Buzite answered and said: “I am young in years, and you are aged; therefore I was timid and afraid to declare my opinion to you.
Job 32:7 I said, ‘Let days speak, and many years teach wisdom.’
Job 32:8 But it is understand.
Job 32:9   who are wise, nor the aged who understand what is right.
Job 32:10 Therefore I say, ‘Listen to me; let me also declare my opinion.’
Job 32:11 “Behold, I waited for your words, I listened for your wise sayings, while you searched out what to say.
Job 32:12 I gave you my attention, and, behold, there was none among you who refuted Job or who answered his words.
Job 32:13 Beware lest you say, ‘We have found wisdom; God may vanquish him, not a man.’
Job 32:14 He has not directed his words against me, and I will not answer him with your speeches.
Job 32:15 “They are dismayed; they answer no more; they have not a word to say.
Job 32:16 And shall I wait, because they do not speak, because they stand there, and answer no more?
Job 32:17 I also will answer with my share; I also will declare my opinion.
Job 32:18 For I am full of words; the spirit within me constrains me.
Job 32:19 Behold, my belly is like wine that has no vent; like new wineskins ready to burst.
Job 32:20  relief; I must open my lips and answer.
Job 32:21 I will not show partiality to any man or use flattery toward any person.
Job 32:22 For I do not know how to flatter, else my Maker would soon take me away.
Job 33:1 “But now, hear my speech, O Job, and listen to all my words.
Job 33:2 Behold, I open my mouth; the tongue in my mouth speaks.
Job 33:3 My words declare the uprightness of my heart, and what my lips know they speak sincerely.
Job 33:4  the breath of the Almighty gives me life.
Job 33:5 set your words in order before me; take your stand.
Job 33:6 Behold, I am toward God as you are; I too was pinched off from a piece of clay.
Job 33:7 Behold, no pressure will not be heavy upon you.
Job 33:8 “Surely you have spoken in my ears, and I have heard the sound of your words.
Job 33:9 You say, ‘I am transgression; I am clean, and there is no iniquity in me.
Job 33:10 Behold, he finds occasions against me, he counts me as his enemy,
Job 33:11 he watches all my paths.’
Job 33:12 “Behold, in this you are not right. I will answer you, for God is greater than man.
Job 33:13 Why do you
Job 33:14 For God does not perceive it.
Job 33:15 In deep sleep falls on men, while they slumber on their beds,
Job 33:16 then he  them with warnings,
Job 33:17 that he may turn man aside from his deed and conceal pride from a man;
Job 33:18 he keeps back his soul from the pit, his life from perishing by the sword.
Job 33:19 “Man is also rebuked with pain on his bed and with continual strife in his bones,
Job 33:20 so that his the choicest food.
Job 33:21 His flesh is so wasted away that it cannot be seen, and his bones that were not seen stick out.
Job 33:22 His soul draws near those who bring death.
Job 33:23 If there be for him right for him,
Job 33:24 and he is merciful to him, and says, ‘Deliver him from going down into the pit; I have found a ransom;
Job 33:25 let his flesh become fresh with youth; let him return to the days of his youthful vigor’;
Job 33:26 then man restores to man his righteousness.
Job 33:27 He sings before men and says: ‘I sinned and perverted what was right, and it was not repaid to me.
Job 33:28 He has redeemed my look upon the light.’
Job 33:29 “Behold, God does all these things, twice, three times, with a man,
Job 33:30 to bring back his soul from the pit, that he may be lighted with the light of life.
Job 33:31 Pay attention, O Job, listen to me; be silent, and I will speak.
Job 33:32 If you have any words,speak, for I desire to justify you.
Job 33:33 If not, listen to me; be silent, and I will teach you wisdom.”
Job 34:1 Then Elihu answered and said:
Job 34:2 “Hear my words, you wise men, and give ear to me, you who know;
Job 34:3 for the ear tests words as the palate tastes food.
Job 34:4 Let us choose what is right; let us know among ourselves what is good.
Job 34:5 For Job has said, ‘I am God has taken away my right;
Job 34:6 in spite of my right I am counted a liar; my wound is incurable, though I am without transgression.’
Job 34:7 What man is like Job, who drinks up scoffing like water,
Job 34:8 who travels in company with evildoers and walks with wicked men?
Job 34:9 For he has said, ‘It profits a man nothing that he should take delight in God.’
Job 34:10 “Therefore, hear me, you men of understanding: far be it from God that he should do wickedness, and from the Almighty that he should do wrong.
Job 34:11 For according to according to his ways he will make it befall him.
Job 34:12 Of a truth, God will not do wickedly, and the Almighty will not pervert justice.
Job 34:13 Who gave him charge over the earth, and who  the whole world?
Job 34:14 If he should spirit and his breath,
Job 34:15 all flesh would perish together, and man would return to dust.
Job 34:16 “If you have understanding, hear this; listen to what I say.
Job 34:17  Shall one who hates justice govern? Will you condemn him who is righteous and mighty,
Job 34:18 who says to a king, ‘Worthless one,’ and to nobles, ‘Wicked man,’
Job 34:19 who they are all the work of his hands?
Job 34:20 In a moment no human hand.
Job 34:21 “For his eyes are on steps.
Job 34:22 There is no deep darkness where evildoers may hide themselves.
Job 34:23 For God judgment.
Job 34:24 He others in their place.
Job 34:25 Thus, knowing their works, he overturns them in the night, and they are crushed.
Job 34:26 He strikes them for their wickedness in a place for all to see,
Job 34:27 because they turned aside from following him and had no regard for any of his ways,
Job 34:28 so that they heard the cry of the afflicted —
Job 34:29 When he is quiet, who can condemn? When he hides his face, who can behold him, whether it be a nation or a man? —
Job 34:30 that a godless man should not reign, that he should not ensnare the people.
Job 34:31 “For has anyone said to God, ‘I have borne punishment; I will not offend any more;
Job 34:32  teach me what I do not see; if I have done iniquity, I will do it no more’?
Job 34:33 Will he then make repayment to suit you, because you reject it? For you must choose, and not I; therefore
Job 34:34 Men of understanding will say to me, and the wise man who hears me will say:
Job 34:35 ‘Job speaks without knowledge; his words are without insight.’
Job 34:36 Would that Job were tried to the end, because he answers like wicked men.
Job 34:37 For he adds rebellion to his sin; he claps his hands among us and multiplies his words against God.”
Job 35:1 And Elihu answered and said:
Job 35:2 “Do you think this to be just? Do you say, ‘It is my right before God,’
Job 35:3 that you ask, ‘What advantage have I? How am I better off than if I had sinned?’
Job 35:4 I will answer you and your friends with you.
Job 35:5  Look at the heavens, and see; and behold the clouds, which are higher than you.
Job 35:6 If you have sinned, what do you accomplish against him? And if your transgressions are multiplied, what do you do to him?
Job 35:7  If you are righteous, what do you give to him? Or what does he receive from your hand?
Job 35:8 Your wickedness concerns a man like yourself, and your righteousness a son of man.
Job 35:9 “Because of the multitude of
Job 35:10 But none says, ‘Where is God my songs in the night,
Job 35:11 who teaches us more than the beasts of the earth and makes us wiser than the birds of the heavens?’
Job 35:12 There they cry out, but he does not answer, because of the pride of evil men.
Job 35:13 Surely God does not hear an empty cry, nor does the Almighty regard it.
Job 35:14 How much less when you say that you waiting for him!
Job 35:15 And now, because
Job 35:16 Job opens his mouth in empty talk; he without knowledge.”
Job 36:1 And Elihu continued, and said:
Job 36:2 “Bear with me a little, and I will show you, for I have yet something to say on God's behalf.
Job 36:3 I will get my knowledge from Maker.
Job 36:4 For truly my words are not false; one who is perfect in knowledge is with you.
Job 36:5 “Behold, God is mighty, and mighty in strength of understanding.
Job 36:6 He does not keep the wicked alive, but gives the afflicted their right.
Job 36:7 He does not withdraw his exalted.
Job 36:8 And if they are bound in chains and caught in the cords of affliction,
Job 36:9 then he declares to them their work and their transgressions, that they are behaving arrogantly.
Job 36:10 He return from iniquity.
Job 36:11  complete their days in prosperity, and their years in pleasantness.
Job 36:12 But if they do not listen, they without knowledge.
Job 36:13 “The binds them.
Job 36:14 They die in youth, and their life ends among the cult prostitutes.
Job 36:15 He delivers opens their ear by adversity.
Job 36:16 He also allured you out of distress into fatness.
Job 36:17 “But you are full of the judgment on the wicked; judgment and justice seize you.
Job 36:18 Beware lest wrath entice you into scoffing, and let not the greatness of the ransom turn you aside.
Job 36:19 Will your cry for help avail to keep you from distress, or all the force of your strength?
Job 36:20 Do not long for in their place.
Job 36:21 Take care; do not turn to iniquity, for this you have chosen rather than affliction.
Job 36:22 Behold, God is exalted in his power; who is a teacher like him?
Job 36:23 Who has ‘You have done wrong’?
Job 36:24 “Remember to sung.
Job 36:25 All mankind has looked on it; man beholds it from afar.
Job 36:26 Behold, God is great, and we years is unsearchable.
Job 36:27 For he draws up the drops of water; they distill his rain,
Job 36:28 which the skies pour down and drop on mankind abundantly.
Job 36:29 Can anyone understand pavilion?
Job 36:30 Behold, he scatters his lightning about him and covers the roots of the sea.
Job 36:31 For by these he food in abundance.
Job 36:32 He covers his hands with the lightning and commands it to strike the mark.
Job 36:33 Its crashing declares his presence;  the cattle also declare that he rises.
Job 37:1 “At this also my heart trembles and leaps out of its place.
Job 37:2 Keep listening to the thunder of his voice and the rumbling that comes from his mouth.
Job 37:3 Under the whole heaven he lets it go, and his corners of the earth.
Job 37:4 After it  when his voice is heard.
Job 37:5 God thunders wondrously with his voice; he does comprehend.
Job 37:6 For to the snow he says, ‘Fall on the earth,’ likewise to the downpour, his mighty downpour.
Job 37:7 He know it.
Job 37:8 Then the beasts go into their dens.
Job 37:9 From cold from the scattering winds.
Job 37:10 By the breath of God the broad waters are frozen fast.
Job 37:11 He loads the thick cloud with moisture; the clouds scatter his lightning.
Job 37:12 They the habitable world.
Job 37:13 Whether for love, he causes it to happen.
Job 37:14 “Hear this, O Job; stop and consider the wondrous works of God.
Job 37:15 Do you know how God lays his command upon them and causes the lightning of his cloud to shine?
Job 37:16 Do you know the balancings perfect in knowledge,
Job 37:17 you whose garments are hot when the earth is still because of the south wind?
Job 37:18 Can you, like him, mirror?
Job 37:19 Teach us what we shall say to him; we cannot draw up our case because of darkness.
Job 37:20 Shall it be told him that I would speak? Did a man ever wish that he would be swallowed up?
Job 37:21 “And now no one looks on the light when it is bright in the skies, when the wind has passed and cleared them.
Job 37:22 Out of the north comes golden splendor; God is clothed with awesome majesty.
Job 37:23 The Almighty — we violate.
Job 37:24 Therefore men
Job 38:1 Then the LORD answered Job out of the whirlwind and said:
Job 38:2 “Who is this that without knowledge?
Job 38:3   like a man; I will question you, and you make it known to me.
Job 38:4 “Where were you when I laid the foundation of the earth? Tell me, if you have understanding.
Job 38:5 Who determined its measurements — surely you know! Or who stretched the line upon it?
Job 38:6 On what were its bases sunk, or who laid its cornerstone,
Job 38:7 when the morning stars shouted for joy?
Job 38:8 “Or who shut in the sea with doors when it burst out from the womb,
Job 38:9 when I made clouds its garment and thick darkness its swaddling band,
Job 38:10 and prescribed limits for it and set bars and doors,
Job 38:11 and said, ‘Thus far shall you come, and no farther, and here shall your proud waves be stayed’?
Job 38:12 “Have you commanded the morning since your days began, and caused the dawn to know its place,
Job 38:13 that it might take hold of shaken out of it?
Job 38:14 It is changed like clay under the seal, and its features stand out like a garment.
Job 38:15 From the wicked their their uplifted arm is broken.
Job 38:16 “Have you entered into the springs of the sea, or walked in the recesses of the deep?
Job 38:17 Have deep darkness?
Job 38:18 Have you comprehended the expanse of the earth? Declare, if you know all this.
Job 38:19 “Where is the way to the dwelling of light, and where is the place of darkness,
Job 38:20 that you may take it to its territory and that you may discern the paths to its home?
Job 38:21 You know, for you were born then, and the number of your days is great!
Job 38:22 “Have you entered the storehouses of the hail,
Job 38:23 which I have reservedfor the day of battle and war?
Job 38:24 What is the way to the place where the light is distributed, or where the east wind is scattered upon the earth?
Job 38:25 “Who has cleft a channel for the torrents of rain and a way for the thunderbolt,
Job 38:26 to bring rain on the desert in which there is no man,
Job 38:27 to satisfy the waste and desolate land, and to make the ground sprout with grass?
Job 38:28 “Has the rain a father, or who has begotten the drops of dew?
Job 38:29 From whose womb did the frost of heaven?
Job 38:30 The waters become hard like stone, and the face of the deep is frozen.
Job 38:31 “Can you bind the chains of Orion?
Job 38:32 Can you lead forth the Mazzaroth the Bear with its children?
Job 38:33 Do you know the ordinances of the heavens? Can you establish their rule on the earth?
Job 38:34 “Can you lift up your voice to the clouds, that a flood of waters may cover you?
Job 38:35 Can you send forth lightnings, that they may go and say to you, ‘Here we are’?
Job 38:36 Who has
Job 38:37 Who can number the clouds by wisdom? Or who can tilt the waterskins of the heavens,
Job 38:38 when the dust runs into a mass and the clods stick fast together?
Job 38:39 “Can you hunt the prey for the lion, or satisfy the appetite of the young lions,
Job 38:40 when they crouch in their in their thicket?
Job 38:41 Who provides for the raven its prey, when its young ones cry to God for help, and wander about for lack of food?
Job 39:1 “Do you know when the calving of the does?
Job 39:2 Can you number the months that they fulfill, and do you know the time when they give birth,
Job 39:3 when they crouch, bring forth their offspring, and are delivered of their young?
Job 39:4 Their young ones become strong; they grow up in the open; they go out and do not return to them.
Job 39:5 “Who has let the wild donkey go free? Who has loosed the bonds of the swift donkey,
Job 39:6 to whom I have given the salt land for his dwelling place?
Job 39:7 He scorns the tumult of the city; he hears not the shouts of the driver.
Job 39:8 He ranges the mountains as his pasture, and he searches after every green thing.
Job 39:9 “Is manger?
Job 39:10 Can you bind him in the furrow with ropes, or will he harrow the valleys after you?
Job 39:11 Will you depend on him because his strength is great, and will you leave to him your labor?
Job 39:12 Do you have faith in him that he will return your grain and gather it to your threshing floor?
Job 39:13 “The wings of the ostrich wave proudly, but are they the pinions and plumage of love?
Job 39:14 For she leaves her eggs to the earth and lets them be warmed on the ground,
Job 39:15 forgetting that a foot may crush them and that the wild beast may trample them.
Job 39:16 She labor be in vain, yet she has no fear,
Job 39:17 because God has made her forget wisdom and given her no share in understanding.
Job 39:18 When she rouses herself to flee,  she laughs at the horse and his rider.
Job 39:19 “Do you give the horse his might? Do you clothe his neck with a mane?
Job 39:20 Do you make him leap like the locust? His majestic snorting is terrifying.
Job 39:21 He paws goes out to meet the weapons.
Job 39:22 He laughs at fear and is not dismayed; he does not turn back from the sword.
Job 39:23 Upon him rattle the quiver, the flashing spear, and the javelin.
Job 39:24 With fierceness and rage he swallows the ground; he cannot stand still at the sound of the trumpet.
Job 39:25 When the trumpet sounds, he says ‘Aha!’ He smells the battle from afar, the thunder of the captains, and the shouting.
Job 39:26 “Is it by your understanding that the hawk soars and spreads his wings toward the south?
Job 39:27 Is it at your command that the eagle mounts up and makes his nest on high?
Job 39:28 On the rock he dwells and makes his home, on the rocky crag and stronghold.
Job 39:29 From there he spies out the prey; his eyes behold it from far away.
Job 39:30 His young ones suck up blood, and where the slain are, there is he.”
Job 40:1 And the LORD said to Job:
Job 40:2 “Shall a faultfinder contend with the Almighty? He who argues with God, let him answer it.”
Job 40:3 Then Job answered the LORD and said:
Job 40:4 “Behold, I amI lay my hand on my mouth.
Job 40:5 I have spokentwice, but I will proceed no further.”
Job 40:6 Then the LORD answered Job out of the whirlwind and said:
Job 40:7 I will question you, and you make it known to me.
Job 40:8 Will you even put me in the wrong? Will you condemn me that you may be in the right?
Job 40:9 Have you a voice like his?
Job 40:10 “Adorn yourself with majesty and dignity; clothe yourself with glory and splendor.
Job 40:11 Pour out the overflowings of your anger, and look on everyone who is proud and abase him.
Job 40:12 Look on everyone who is proud and bring him low and where they stand.
Job 40:13
Job 40:14 Then will I also acknowledge to you that your own right hand can save you.
Job 40:15 “Behold, Behemoth, grass like an ox.
Job 40:16 Behold, his strength in his loins, and his power in the muscles of his belly.
Job 40:17 He makes his tail stiff like a cedar; the sinews of his thighs are knit together.
Job 40:18 His bones are tubes of bronze, his limbs like bars of iron.
Job 40:19 “He is  of God; let him who made him bring near his sword!
Job 40:20 For the mountains yield food for him where all the wild beasts play.
Job 40:21 Under the lotus plants he lies, in the shelter of the reeds and in the marsh.
Job 40:22 For his shade the lotus trees cover him; the willows of the brook surround him.
Job 40:23 Behold, if the river is turbulent he is not frightened; he is confident though Jordan rushes against his mouth.
Job 40:24 Can one take him by his eyes,  or pierce his nose with a snare?
Job 41:1   with a fishhook or press down his tongue with a cord?
Job 41:2 Can you put a hook?
Job 41:3 Will he make many pleas to you? Will he speak to you soft words?
Job 41:4 Will he make a covenant with you to take him for your servant forever?
Job 41:5 Will you play with him as with a bird, or will you put him on a leash for your girls?
Job 41:6 Will traders bargain over him? Will they divide him up among the merchants?
Job 41:7 Can you fill his skin with harpoons or his head with fishing spears?
Job 41:8 Lay your hands on him; remember the battle — you will not do it again!
Job 41:9  Behold, the hope of a man is false; he is laid low even at the sight of him.
Job 41:10 No one is so fierce that he dares to stir him up. Who then is he who can stand before me?
Job 41:11 Whatever is under the whole heaven is mine.
Job 41:12 “I will not keep silence concerning his limbs, or his mighty strength, or his goodly frame.
Job 41:13 Who can strip off his outer garment? Who would come near him with a bridle?
Job 41:14 Who can open the doors of his face? Around his teeth is terror.
Job 41:15 His back is made of  rows of shields, shut up closely as with a seal.
Job 41:16 One is so near to another that no air can come between them.
Job 41:17 They are joined one to another; they clasp each other and cannot be separated.
Job 41:18 His sneezings flash forth light, and his eyes are like the eyelids of the dawn.
Job 41:19 Out of his mouth go flaming torches; sparks of fire leap forth.
Job 41:20 Out of his nostrils comes forth smoke, as from a boiling pot and burning rushes.
Job 41:21 His breath kindles coals, and a flame comes forth from his mouth.
Job 41:22 In his neck abides strength, and terror dances before him.
Job 41:23 The folds of his flesh stick together, firmly cast on him and immovable.
Job 41:24 His heart is hard as a stone, hard as the lower millstone.
Job 41:25 When he raises himself up, the mighty  are afraid; at the crashing they are beside themselves.
Job 41:26 Though the sword reaches him, it does not avail, nor the spear, the dart, or the javelin.
Job 41:27 He counts iron as straw, and bronze as rotten wood.
Job 41:28 The arrow cannot make him flee; for him, sling stones are turned to stubble.
Job 41:29 Clubs are counted as stubble; he laughs at the rattle of javelins.
Job 41:30 His underparts are like sharp a threshing sledge on the mire.
Job 41:31 He makes the deep boil like a pot; he makes the sea like a pot of ointment.
Job 41:32 Behind him he leaves a shining wake; one would think the deep to be white-haired.
Job 41:33  On earth there is not his like, a creature without fear.
Job 41:34 He sees everything that is high; he is king over all the sons of pride.”
Job 42:1 Then Job answered the LORD and said:
Job 42:2 “I know that you can do all things, and that no purpose of yours can be thwarted.
Job 42:3  too wonderful for me, which I did not know.
Job 42:4 ‘Hear, and I will speak; I will question you, and you make it known to me.’
Job 42:5 I had heard of you by the hearing of the ear, but now my eye sees you;
Job 42:6 therefore I despise myself, and repent dust and ashes.”
Job 42:7 After the LORD had spoken these words to Job, the LORD said to Eliphaz the Temanite: “My anger burns against you and against your two friends, for you have not spoken of me what is right, as my servant Job has.
Job 42:8 Now therefore take pray for you, for I will accept his prayer not to deal with you according to your folly. For you have not spoken of me what is right, as my servant Job has.”
Job 42:9  So Eliphaz the Temanite and Bildad the Shuhite and Zophar the Naamathite went and did what the LORD had told them, and the LORD accepted Job's prayer.
Job 42:10 And the LORD twice as much as he had before.
Job 42:11 Then came to him all his a ring of gold.
Job 42:12 And the LORD blessed 14,000 sheep, 6,000 camels, 1,000 yoke of oxen, and 1,000 female donkeys.
Job 42:13 He had also seven sons and three daughters.
Job 42:14 And he called the name of the first daughter Jemimah, and the name of the second Keziah, and the name of the third Keren-happuch.
Job 42:15 And in all the land there were no women so beautiful as Job's daughters. And their father gave them an inheritance among their brothers.
Job 42:16 And after this Job lived 140 years, and saw his sons, and his sons' sons, four generations.
Job 42:17 And Job died, an old man, and full of days.
Psalm 1:1 Blessed is the man scoffers;
Psalm 1:2 but his law he meditates day and night.
Psalm 1:3 He is likeIn all that he does, he prospers.
Psalm 1:4 The wicked are not so, but are like chaff that the wind drives away.
Psalm 1:5 Therefore the wicked the congregation of the righteous;
Psalm 1:6 for the LORD the way of the righteous, but the way of the wicked will perish.
Psalm 2:1   and the peoples plot in vain?
Psalm 2:2 The kings of the earth set themselves, and the rulers take counsel together, against the LORD and against his Anointed, saying,
Psalm 2:3 “Let us burst their bonds apart and cast away their cords from us.”
Psalm 2:4 He who laughs; the Lord holds them in derision.
Psalm 2:5 Then he will speak to them in his wrath, and terrify them in his fury, saying,
Psalm 2:6 “As for me, I have holy hill.”
Psalm 2:7 I will tell of the decree: The LORD said to me, “You are my Son; today I have begotten you.
Psalm 2:8 Ask of me, and I will make the nations your heritage, and the ends of the earth your possession.
Psalm 2:9 You shall a potter's vessel.”
Psalm 2:10 Now therefore, O kings, be wise; be warned, O rulers of the earth.
Psalm 2:11  trembling.
Psalm 2:12 Blessed are all who take refuge in him.
Psalm 3:1  rising against me;
Psalm 3:2 many are saying of my soul,
Psalm 3:3 But you, O LORD, are the lifter of my head.
Psalm 3:4 I holy hill. Selah
Psalm 3:5 I lay down and slept; I woke again, for the LORD sustained me.
Psalm 3:6 I set themselves against me all around.
Psalm 3:7  break the teeth of the wicked.
Psalm 3:8  Salvation belongs to the LORD; your blessing be on your people! Selah
Psalm 4:1  given me relief when I was in distress. Be gracious to me and hear my prayer!
Psalm 4:2 O men, lies? Selah
Psalm 4:3 But know that the LORD has the godly for himself; the LORD hears when I call to him.
Psalm 4:4  on your beds, and be silent. Selah
Psalm 4:5 Offer trust in the LORD.
Psalm 4:6 There are many who say, “Who will show us some good?  the light of your face upon us, O LORD!”
Psalm 4:7 You have put more joy in my heart than they have when their grain and wine abound.
Psalm 4:8 In peace I will both dwell in safety.
Psalm 5:1 Give ear to my words, O LORD; consider my groaning.
Psalm 5:2 Give attention to the sound of my cry, my to you do I pray.
Psalm 5:3 O LORD, in watch.
Psalm 5:4 For you are not a God who delights in wickedness; evil may not dwell with you.
Psalm 5:5 The hate all evildoers.
Psalm 5:6 You destroy those who speak the bloodthirsty and deceitful man.
Psalm 5:7 But I, through the abundance of your steadfast love, will enter your house. I will holy temple in the fear of you.
Psalm 5:8 make your way straight before me.
Psalm 5:9 For there is no truth in their mouth; their inmost self is flatter with their tongue.
Psalm 5:10  fall by their own counsels; because of the abundance of their transgressions cast them out, for they have rebelled against you.
Psalm 5:11 But let all who exult in you.
Psalm 5:12 For you a shield.
Psalm 6:1  discipline me in your wrath.
Psalm 6:2 Be gracious to me, O LORD, for I am languishing;  for my bones are troubled.
Psalm 6:3 My how long?
Psalm 6:4 Turn, O LORD, deliver my life; save me for the sake of your steadfast love.
Psalm 6:5 For in death there is no remembrance of you; in Sheol who will give you praise?
Psalm 6:6 I am moaning; every night I flood my bed with tears; I drench my couch with my weeping.
Psalm 6:7 My eye wastes away because of grief; it grows weak because of all my foes.
Psalm 6:8  has heard the sound of my weeping.
Psalm 6:9 The LORD has heard my plea; the LORD accepts my prayer.
Psalm 6:10 All my enemies shall be ashamed and greatly troubled; they shall turn back and be put to shame in a moment.
Psalm 7:1 save me from all my pursuers and deliver me,
Psalm 7:2 lest like none to deliver.
Psalm 7:3 O LORD my God, wrong in my hands,
Psalm 7:4 if I have repaid plundered my enemy without cause,
Psalm 7:5 let the enemy pursue my soul and overtake it, and let him trample my life to the ground and lay my glory in the dust. Selah
Psalm 7:6 awake for me; you have appointed a judgment.
Psalm 7:7 Let the assembly of the peoples be gathered about you; over it return on high.
Psalm 7:8 The LORDjudge me, O LORD, according to my righteousness and according to the integrity that is in me.
Psalm 7:9 Oh, let the evil of the wicked come to an end, and may you establish the righteous — you who  O righteous God!
Psalm 7:10 My shield is the upright in heart.
Psalm 7:11 God is indignation every day.
Psalm 7:12 If a man readied his bow;
Psalm 7:13 he has prepared for him his deadly weapons, making his fiery shafts.
Psalm 7:14 Behold, the wicked man pregnant with mischief and gives birth to lies.
Psalm 7:15 He makes a pit, digging it out, and falls into the hole that he has made.
Psalm 7:16 His mischief returns upon his own head, and on his own skull his violence descends.
Psalm 7:17 I will give to the LORD the thanks due to his righteousness, and I will sing praise to the name of the LORD, the Most High.
Psalm 8:1  glory above the heavens.
Psalm 8:2  the enemy and the avenger.
Psalm 8:3 When I which you have set in place,
Psalm 8:4  care for him?
Psalm 8:5 Yet you have made him a little lower than glory and honor.
Psalm 8:6 You have given himyou have put all things under his feet,
Psalm 8:7 all sheep and oxen, and also the beasts of the field,
Psalm 8:8 the birds of the heavens, and the fish of the sea, whatever passes along the paths of the seas.
Psalm 8:9 O LORD, our Lord, how majestic is your name in all the earth!
Psalm 9:1  wonderful deeds.
Psalm 9:2 I will be glad and O Most High.
Psalm 9:3 When my enemies turn back, they stumble and perish before  your presence.
Psalm 9:4 For you have sat on the throne, giving righteous judgment.
Psalm 9:5 You have blotted out their name forever and ever.
Psalm 9:6 The enemy came to an end in everlasting ruins; their cities you rooted out; the very memory of them has perished.
Psalm 9:7 But the LORD sits enthroned forever; he has established his throne for justice,
Psalm 9:8 and he judges the peoples with uprightness.
Psalm 9:9 The LORD is times of trouble.
Psalm 9:10 And those who know your name put their trust in you, for you, O LORD, have not forsaken those who seek you.
Psalm 9:11 Sing praises to the LORD, who deeds!
Psalm 9:12 For he who does not forget the cry of the afflicted.
Psalm 9:13  the gates of death,
Psalm 9:14 that I may recount all your praises, that in the gates of rejoice in your salvation.
Psalm 9:15 The nations have sunk in the net that they hid, their own foot has been caught.
Psalm 9:16 The LORD has made himself  Selah
Psalm 9:17 The wicked shall forget God.
Psalm 9:18 For the needy shall not always be forgotten, and the hope of the poor shall not perish forever.
Psalm 9:19  man prevail; let the nations be judged before you!
Psalm 9:20 Put them in fear, O LORD! Let the nations know that they are but men! Selah
Psalm 10:1 Why, O LORD, do you stand times of trouble?
Psalm 10:2 In arrogance the wicked hotly pursue the poor; let them be caught in the schemes that they have devised.
Psalm 10:3 For the wicked renounces the LORD.
Psalm 10:4 In the pride of his face “There is no God.”
Psalm 10:5 His ways prosper at all times; your judgments are on high, puffs at them.
Psalm 10:6 He shall not meet adversity.”
Psalm 10:7  iniquity.
Psalm 10:8 He sits in ambush in the villages; in hiding places he murders the innocent. His eyes stealthily watch for the helpless;
Psalm 10:9 he lurks in ambush like net.
Psalm 10:10 The helpless are crushed, sink down, and fall by his might.
Psalm 10:11 He says in his heart, “God has forgotten, he has will never see it.”
Psalm 10:12 forget not the afflicted.
Psalm 10:13 Why does the wicked call to account”?
Psalm 10:14 But you do see, for you the helper of the fatherless.
Psalm 10:15 call his wickedness to account till you find none.
Psalm 10:16  nations perish from his land.
Psalm 10:17 O LORD, you hear the desire of the afflicted; you will strengthen their heart; you will incline your ear
Psalm 10:18 to man who is of the earth may strike terror no more.
Psalm 11:1 In the LORD I take refuge; how can you say to my soul, “Flee like a bird to your mountain,
Psalm 11:2 for behold, the wickedthey have fitted their arrow to the string to shoot in the dark at the upright in heart;
Psalm 11:3 if
Psalm 11:4  test the children of man.
Psalm 11:5 The LORD his soul hates the wicked and the one who loves violence.
Psalm 11:6 Let him rain coals on the wicked;  the portion of their cup.
Psalm 11:7 For the LORD is righteous; hethe upright shall behold his face.
Psalm 12:1  the godly one is gone; for the faithful have vanished from among the children of man.
Psalm 12:2 Everyone a double heart they speak.
Psalm 12:3 May the LORD cut off all great boasts,
Psalm 12:4 those who say, “With our tongue we will prevail, our lips are with us; who is master over us?”
Psalm 12:5 “Because safety for which he longs.”
Psalm 12:6  The words of the LORD are pure words, like silver refined in a furnace on the ground, purified seven times.
Psalm 12:7 You, O LORD, will keep them; you will guard us  from this generation forever.
Psalm 12:8 On every side the wicked prowl, as vileness is exalted among the children of man.
Psalm 13:1  hide your face from me?
Psalm 13:2 How long must I take counsel in my soul and have sorrow in my heart all the day? How long shall my enemy be exalted over me?
Psalm 13:3  I sleep the sleep of death,
Psalm 13:4  shaken.
Psalm 13:5 But I have rejoice in your salvation.
Psalm 13:6 I will sing to the LORD, because he has dealt bountifully with me.
Psalm 14:1 there is none who does good.
Psalm 14:2 The LORD seek after God.
Psalm 14:3 They have all turned aside; together they have become corrupt; there is none who does good, not even one.
Psalm 14:4 Have they no do not call upon the LORD?
Psalm 14:5 There they are in great terror, for God is with the generation of the righteous.
Psalm 14:6 You would shame the plans of the poor, but refuge.
Psalm 14:7 Oh, that salvation for Israel would come out of Zion! When the LORD restores the fortunes of his people, let Jacob rejoice, let Israel be glad.
Psalm 15:1 O LORD, holy hill?
Psalm 15:2 He who speaks truth in his heart;
Psalm 15:3 who takes up a reproach against his friend;
Psalm 15:4  swears to his own hurt and does not change;
Psalm 15:5 who moved.
Psalm 16:1  take refuge.
Psalm 16:2 I say to the LORD, “You are my Lord; I have no good apart from you.”
Psalm 16:3 As for
Psalm 16:4 The sorrows of those who run after take their names on my lips.
Psalm 16:5 The LORD is lot.
Psalm 16:6  The lines have fallen for me in pleasant places; indeed, I have a beautiful inheritance.
Psalm 16:7 I bless the LORD who
Psalm 16:8  shaken.
Psalm 16:9 Therefore my heart is glad, and my  rejoices; my flesh also dwells secure.
Psalm 16:10 For you will not abandon my soul to
Psalm 16:11 You make known to me pleasures forevermore.
Psalm 17:1  attend to my cry! Give ear to my prayer from lips free of deceit!
Psalm 17:2 From your presence let my vindication come! Let your eyes behold the right!
Psalm 17:3 You have tested me, and you will find nothing; I have purposed that my mouth will not transgress.
Psalm 17:4 With regard to the works of man, by the word of your lips I have avoided the ways of the violent.
Psalm 17:5 My steps have held fast to your paths; my feet have not slipped.
Psalm 17:6 Iincline your ear to me; hear my words.
Psalm 17:7  their adversaries at your right hand.
Psalm 17:8 Keep me as the shadow of your wings,
Psalm 17:9 from the wicked who do me violence, my deadly enemies who surround me.
Psalm 17:10  speak arrogantly.
Psalm 17:11 They have now surrounded our cast us to the ground.
Psalm 17:12 He is like a lion eager to tear, as a young lion lurking in ambush.
Psalm 17:13 Arise, O LORD! Confront him, subdue him! Deliver my soul from the wicked by your sword,
Psalm 17:14 from men by your hand, O LORD, from children, and they leave their abundance to their infants.
Psalm 17:15 As for me, I shall satisfied with your likeness.
Psalm 18:1   I love you, O LORD, my strength.
Psalm 18:2 The LORD is my stronghold.
Psalm 18:3 I call upon the LORD, who is worthy to be praised, and I am saved from my enemies.
Psalm 18:4
Psalm 18:5  the cords of Sheol entangled me; the snares of death confronted me.
Psalm 18:6  temple he heard my voice, and my cry to him reached his ears.
Psalm 18:7 Then the earth reeled and rocked; the foundations also of the mountains trembled and quaked, because he was angry.
Psalm 18:8 Smoke went up from his nostrils, fire from his mouth; glowing coals flamed forth from him.
Psalm 18:9 Hethick darkness was under his feet.
Psalm 18:10 He rode on a cherub and flew; he came swiftly on the wings of the wind.
Psalm 18:11 He made darkness his covering, his dark with water.
Psalm 18:12 Out of the brightness before him hailstones and coals of fire broke through his clouds.
Psalm 18:13 The LORD also voice, hailstones and coals of fire.
Psalm 18:14 And he sent out his routed them.
Psalm 18:15 Then the breath of your nostrils.
Psalm 18:16 He many waters.
Psalm 18:17 He rescued me from my strong enemy and from those who hated me, for they were too mighty for me.
Psalm 18:18 They confronted me in the day of my calamity, but the LORD was my support.
Psalm 18:19 He brought me out into delighted in me.
Psalm 18:20 The LORD dealt with me the cleanness of my hands he rewarded me.
Psalm 18:21 For I have kept the ways of the LORD, and have not wickedly departed from my God.
Psalm 18:22 For  were before me, and his statutes I did not put away from me.
Psalm 18:23 I was blameless before him, and I kept myself from my guilt.
Psalm 18:24 So the LORD has rewarded me according to my righteousness, according to the cleanness of my hands in his sight.
Psalm 18:25 With the merciful you show yourself merciful; with the blameless man you show yourself blameless;
Psalm 18:26 with the purified you show yourself pure; and with the crooked you make yourself seem tortuous.
Psalm 18:27 For you save the haughty eyes you bring down.
Psalm 18:28 For it is you who light my lamp; the LORD my God lightens my darkness.
Psalm 18:29 For by you I can run against a troop, and by my God I can a wall.
Psalm 18:30 This God — his way is take refuge in him.
Psalm 18:31 For a rock, except our God? —
Psalm 18:32 the God who blameless.
Psalm 18:33 He made my feet like the feet of a the heights.
Psalm 18:34 He trains my hands for war, so that my arms can bend a bow of bronze.
Psalm 18:35 You have given me the shield of your salvation, and your right hand gentleness made me great.
Psalm 18:36 You gave a wide place for my steps under me, and my feet did not slip.
Psalm 18:37 I pursued my enemies and overtook them, and did not turn back till they were consumed.
Psalm 18:38 I thrust them through, so that they were not able to rise; they fell under my feet.
Psalm 18:39 For you equipped me with strength for the battle; you made those who rise against me sink under me.
Psalm 18:40 You made my enemies  and those who hated me I destroyed.
Psalm 18:41  They cried for help, but there was none to save; they cried to the LORD, but he did not answer them.
Psalm 18:42 I beat them fine as the mire of the streets.
Psalm 18:43 You delivered me frompeople whom I had not known served me.
Psalm 18:44 As soon as they heard of me they obeyed me;  came cringing to me.
Psalm 18:45  came trembling out of their fortresses.
Psalm 18:46 The LORD lives, and blessed be my rock, and exalted be the God of my salvation —
Psalm 18:47 the God who gave me vengeance and subdued peoples under me,
Psalm 18:48 who rescued me from my enemies; yes, you the man of violence.
Psalm 18:49  sing to your name.
Psalm 18:50 Great David and his offspring forever.
Psalm 19:1   proclaims his handiwork.
Psalm 19:2 Day to day pours out speech, and night to night reveals knowledge.
Psalm 19:3 There is no speech, nor are there words, whose voice is not heard.
Psalm 19:4  the sun,
Psalm 19:5  a bridegroom leaving his chamber, and, like a strong man, runs its course with joy.
Psalm 19:6 Its rising is from the end of the heavens, and its circuit to the end of them, and there is nothing hidden from its heat.
Psalm 19:7  the simple;
Psalm 19:8 enlightening the eyes;
Psalm 19:9 the fear of the LORD is clean, enduring forever; the rules true, and righteous altogether.
Psalm 19:10 More to be desired are they than the honeycomb.
Psalm 19:11 Moreover, by them is your servant warned; in keeping them there is great reward.
Psalm 19:12  hidden faults.
Psalm 19:13  dominion over me! Then I shall be blameless, and innocent of great transgression.
Psalm 19:14 Let the words of my mouth and the meditation of my heart be acceptable in your sight, O LORD, my redeemer.
Psalm 20:1 May the LORD protect you!
Psalm 20:2 May he send you help from Zion!
Psalm 20:3 May he remember all your offerings and regard with favor your burnt sacrifices! Selah
Psalm 20:4 May he grant you your heart's desire and fulfill all your plans!
Psalm 20:5 May we shout for joy over banners! May the LORD fulfill all your petitions!
Psalm 20:6 Now I know that the LORD saves his anointed; he will answer him from his holy heaven with the saving might of his right hand.
Psalm 20:7 Some trust inbut we trust in the name of the LORD our God.
Psalm 20:8 They collapse and fall, but we rise and stand upright.
Psalm 20:9 O LORD, save the king! May he answer us when we call.
Psalm 21:1 O LORD, in your salvation how greatly he exults!
Psalm 21:2 You have given him his heart's desire and have not withheld the request of his lips. Selah
Psalm 21:3 For you fine gold upon his head.
Psalm 21:4 He asked life of you; youlength of days forever and ever.
Psalm 21:5 Hissplendor and majesty you bestow on him.
Psalm 21:6 For you make him most blessed forever; joy of your presence.
Psalm 21:7 For the king trusts in the LORD, and through the steadfast love of the Most High he shall not be moved.
Psalm 21:8 Your hand will find out all your enemies; your right hand will find out those who hate you.
Psalm 21:9 You will make them as fire will consume them.
Psalm 21:10 You descendants from the earth, and their offspring from among the children of man.
Psalm 21:11 Though they plan evil against you, though they devise mischief, they will not succeed.
Psalm 21:12 For you will put them aim at their faces with your bows.
Psalm 21:13 Be exalted, O LORD, in your strength! We will sing and praise your power.
Psalm 22:1  groaning?
Psalm 22:2 O my God, I cry by day, but you do not answer, and by night, but I find no rest.
Psalm 22:3 Yet you are  of Israel.
Psalm 22:4 In you our fathers trusted; they trusted, and you delivered them.
Psalm 22:5 To you they trusted and were not put to shame.
Psalm 22:6 But I am despised by the people.
Psalm 22:7 All who see me wag their heads;
Psalm 22:8  delights in him!”
Psalm 22:9 Yet you are he who took me from the womb; you made me trust you at my mother's breasts.
Psalm 22:10 On you was I cast from my birth, and from my mother's womb you have been my God.
Psalm 22:11 Be not none to help.
Psalm 22:12 Many bulls encompass me;  Bashan surround me;
Psalm 22:13 they open wide their mouths at me, like a ravening and roaring lion.
Psalm 22:14 I am wax; it is melted within my breast;
Psalm 22:15 my strength is tongue sticks to my jaws; you lay me in the dust of death.
Psalm 22:16 For  —
Psalm 22:17 I can count all my bones — they stare and gloat over me;
Psalm 22:18  they divide my garments among them, and for my clothing they cast lots.
Psalm 22:19 But you, O LORD, come quickly to my aid!
Psalm 22:20 Deliver my soul from the sword, my precious life from the power of the dog!
Psalm 22:21 Save me from the wild oxen!
Psalm 22:22  brothers; in the midst of the congregation I will praise you:
Psalm 22:23 You who glorify him, and stand in awe of him, all you offspring of Israel!
Psalm 22:24 For he has not despised or abhorred the affliction of cried to him.
Psalm 22:25 From you comes my praise in the great perform before those who fear him.
Psalm 22:26  live forever!
Psalm 22:27 All the families of the nations shall worship before you.
Psalm 22:28 For kingship belongs to the LORD, and he rules over the nations.
Psalm 22:29 All keep himself alive.
Psalm 22:30 Posterity shall serve him; it shall be told of the Lord to the coming generation;
Psalm 22:31 they shall unborn, that he has done it.
Psalm 23:1 The LORD is my want.
Psalm 23:2 He makes me lie down in green
Psalm 23:3 He name's sake.
Psalm 23:4 Even though I rod and your staff, they comfort me.
Psalm 23:5 You cup overflows.
Psalm 23:6 Surely
Psalm 24:1   the world and those who dwell therein,
Psalm 24:2 for he has the seas and established it upon the rivers.
Psalm 24:3  holy place?
Psalm 24:4  what is false and does not swear deceitfully.
Psalm 24:5 He will receive the God of his salvation.
Psalm 24:6 Such is  Selah
Psalm 24:7  the King of glory may come in.
Psalm 24:8 Who is this King of glory? The LORD, strong and mighty, the LORD, mighty in battle!
Psalm 24:9 Lift up your heads, O gates! And lift them up, O ancient doors, that the King of glory may come in.
Psalm 24:10 Who is this King of glory? The LORD of hosts, he is the King of glory! Selah
Psalm 25:1  lift up my soul.
Psalm 25:2 O my God, in you Ilet not my enemies exult over me.
Psalm 25:3 Indeed, treacherous.
Psalm 25:4  Make me to know your ways, O LORD; teach me your paths.
Psalm 25:5 Lead me in your truth and teach me, for you are the God of my salvation; for you I wait all the day long.
Psalm 25:6 Remember yourfor they have been from of old.
Psalm 25:7 Remember not steadfast love remember me, for the sake of your goodness, O LORD!
Psalm 25:8  instructs sinners in the way.
Psalm 25:9 He leads the humble in what is right, and teaches the humble his way.
Psalm 25:10 All the paths of the LORD are steadfast love and faithfulness, for those who keep his covenant and his testimonies.
Psalm 25:11 For your great.
Psalm 25:12 Who is the man who fears the LORD? Him will he instruct in the way that he should choose.
Psalm 25:13 His soul shall shall inherit the land.
Psalm 25:14   of the LORD is for those who fear him, and he makes known to them his covenant.
Psalm 25:15 My pluck my feet out of the net.
Psalm 25:16  Turn to me and be gracious to me, for I am lonely and afflicted.
Psalm 25:17 The troubles of my heart are enlarged; bring me out of my distresses.
Psalm 25:18  Consider my affliction and my trouble, and forgive all my sins.
Psalm 25:19 Consider how many are my foes, and with what violent hatred they hate me.
Psalm 25:20 Oh, guard my soul, and deliver me! Let me not be put to shame, for I take refuge in you.
Psalm 25:21 May integrity and uprightness preserve me, for I wait for you.
Psalm 25:22  Redeem Israel, O God, out of all his troubles.
Psalm 26:1  trusted in the LORD without wavering.
Psalm 26:2
Psalm 26:3 For your faithfulness.
Psalm 26:4 I do not falsehood, nor do I consort with hypocrites.
Psalm 26:5 I hate the assembly of evildoers, and I will not sit with the wicked.
Psalm 26:6 I wash my hands in innocence and go around your altar, O LORD,
Psalm 26:7 proclaiming thanksgiving aloud, and telling all your wondrous deeds.
Psalm 26:8 O LORD, I love the habitation of your house and the place where your glory dwells.
Psalm 26:9  Do not sweep my soul away with sinners, nor my life with bloodthirsty men,
Psalm 26:10 in whose hands are evil devices, and whose right hands are full of bribes.
Psalm 26:11 But as for me, I shall walk in my integrity; redeem me, and be gracious to me.
Psalm 26:12 My foot stands on the great assembly I will bless the LORD.
Psalm 27:1 The LORD is my  of my life; of whom shall I be afraid?
Psalm 27:2 When evildoers assail me to eat up my flesh, my adversaries and foes, it is they who stumble and fall.
Psalm 27:3   I will be confident.
Psalm 27:4   in his temple.
Psalm 27:5 For he will lift me high upon a rock.
Psalm 27:6 And now myI will sing and make melody to the LORD.
Psalm 27:7  Hear, O LORD, when I cry aloud; be gracious to me and answer me!
Psalm 27:8 You have said,
Psalm 27:9 O God of my salvation!
Psalm 27:10 For take me in.
Psalm 27:11  a level path because of my enemies.
Psalm 27:12  breathe out violence.
Psalm 27:13 I believe that I shall look the land of the living!
Psalm 27:14 be strong, and let your heart take courage; wait for the LORD!
Psalm 28:1 To you, O LORD, I call;  go down to the pit.
Psalm 28:2
Psalm 28:3 Do notwho speak peace with their neighbors while evil is in their hearts.
Psalm 28:4 render them their due reward.
Psalm 28:5 Because they do not regard the works of the LORD or the work of his hands, he will tear them down and build them up no more.
Psalm 28:6 Blessed be the LORD! For he has heard the voice of my pleas for mercy.
Psalm 28:7 The LORD is my strength and song I give thanks to him.
Psalm 28:8 The LORD is the strength of his people; the saving refuge of his anointed.
Psalm 28:9 Oh, save your people and bless carry them forever.
Psalm 29:1 Ascribe to the LORD, O heavenly beings,ascribe to the LORD glory and strength.
Psalm 29:2 Ascribe to the LORD the glory due his name; worship the LORD in
Psalm 29:3 The voice of the LORD is over thunders, the LORD, over many waters.
Psalm 29:4 The voice of the LORD is powerful; the voice of the LORD is full of majesty.
Psalm 29:5 The voice of the LORD breaks the cedars; the LORD breaks the cedars of Lebanon.
Psalm 29:6 He makes Lebanon to wild ox.
Psalm 29:7 The voice of the LORD flashes forth flames of fire.
Psalm 29:8 The voice of the LORD shakes the wilderness; the LORD shakes the wilderness of Kadesh.
Psalm 29:9 The voice of the LORD makes  and strips the forests bare, and in his temple all cry, “Glory!”
Psalm 29:10 The LORD sits enthroned over as king forever.
Psalm 29:11 May the LORD give peace!
Psalm 30:1  rejoice over me.
Psalm 30:2 O LORD my God, I healed me.
Psalm 30:3 O LORD, you have brought up my soul from
Psalm 30:4 Sing praises to the LORD, O you
Psalm 30:5  joy comes with the morning.
Psalm 30:6 As for me, I said in my moved.”
Psalm 30:7 By your favor, O LORD, you made my dismayed.
Psalm 30:8 To you, O LORD, I cry, and to the Lord I plead for mercy:
Psalm 30:9 “What profit is there in my death, the dust praise you? Will it tell of your faithfulness?
Psalm 30:10  Hear, O LORD, and be merciful to me! O LORD, be my helper!”
Psalm 30:11 You have turned for me my mourning into dancing; you have loosed my sackcloth and clothed me with gladness,
Psalm 30:12 that my glory may sing your praise and not be silent. O LORD my God, I will give thanks to you forever!
Psalm 31:1  righteousness deliver me!
Psalm 31:2 Incline your ear to me; rescue me speedily! Be refuge for me, a strong fortress to save me!
Psalm 31:3 For you are my rock and my fortress; and for your name's sake you lead me and guide me;
Psalm 31:4 you refuge.
Psalm 31:5  faithful God.
Psalm 31:6 I idols, but I trust in the LORD.
Psalm 31:7 I will rejoice and be glad in your steadfast love, because you have seen my affliction; you have known the distress of my soul,
Psalm 31:8 and you have not a broad place.
Psalm 31:9 Be gracious to me, O LORD, for I ammy eye is wasted from grief; my soul and my body also.
Psalm 31:10 For my life is spent with sorrow, and my years with sighing; my strength fails because of my iniquity, and my bones waste away.
Psalm 31:11 Because of all my adversaries I have become flee from me.
Psalm 31:12 I have been a broken vessel.
Psalm 31:13 For Ias they scheme together against me, as they plot to take my life.
Psalm 31:14 But I trust in you, O LORD; I say, “You are my God.”
Psalm 31:15 Myrescue me from the hand of my enemies and from my persecutors!
Psalm 31:16  Make your face shine on your servant; save me in your steadfast love!
Psalm 31:17 O LORD, silently to Sheol.
Psalm 31:18 Let the lying lips be mute, which insolently against the righteous in pride and contempt.
Psalm 31:19 Oh, how abundant is your goodness, which you have stored up for those who fear you and worked for those who take refuge in you, in the sight of the children of mankind!
Psalm 31:20 In store them in your shelter from the strife of tongues.
Psalm 31:21 Blessed be the LORD, for he has wondrously a besieged city.
Psalm 31:22 I had said in my your sight.” But you heard the voice of my pleas for mercy when I cried to you for help.
Psalm 31:23 Love the LORD, all you his repays the one who acts in pride.
Psalm 31:24  Be strong, and let your heart take courage, all you who wait for the LORD!
Psalm 32:1  transgression is forgiven, whose sin is covered.
Psalm 32:2 Blessed is the man against whom the LORD there is no deceit.
Psalm 32:3 For when I kept silent, my groaning all day long.
Psalm 32:4 For day and night your  as by the heat of summer. Selah
Psalm 32:5 I will confess my transgressions to the LORD,” and you forgave the iniquity of my sin. Selah
Psalm 32:6 Therefore let everyone who is great waters, they shall not reach him.
Psalm 32:7 You are a shouts of deliverance. Selah
Psalm 32:8 I will counsel you with my eye upon you.
Psalm 32:9  bit and bridle, or it will not stay near you.
Psalm 32:10  trusts in the LORD.
Psalm 32:11  upright in heart!
Psalm 33:1 Praise befits the upright.
Psalm 33:2 Give thanks to the LORD with the ten strings!
Psalm 33:3 Sing to him a new song; play skillfully on the strings, with loud shouts.
Psalm 33:4 For the word of the LORD is upright, and all his work is done in faithfulness.
Psalm 33:5 Hethe earth is full of the steadfast love of the LORD.
Psalm 33:6 By their host.
Psalm 33:7 He gathers the waters of the sea as puts the deeps in storehouses.
Psalm 33:8 Let all the earth fear the LORD; let all the inhabitants of the world stand in awe of him!
Psalm 33:9 For he spoke, and it came to be; he commanded, and it stood firm.
Psalm 33:10 The LORD brings the counsel of the nations to nothing; he frustrates the plans of the peoples.
Psalm 33:11  The counsel of the LORD stands forever, the plans of his heart to all generations.
Psalm 33:12  chosen as his heritage!
Psalm 33:13 The LORD looks down from heaven; he sees all the children of man;
Psalm 33:14 from looks out on all the inhabitants of the earth,
Psalm 33:15 he who fashions the hearts of them all and observes all their deeds.
Psalm 33:16  The king is not saved by his great army; a warrior is not delivered by his great strength.
Psalm 33:17  The war horse is a false hope for salvation, and by its great might it cannot rescue.
Psalm 33:18 Behold,on those who hope in his steadfast love,
Psalm 33:19 that he may famine.
Psalm 33:20 Our soul our shield.
Psalm 33:21 For our heart is trust in his holy name.
Psalm 33:22 Let your steadfast love, O LORD, be upon us, even as we hope in you.
Psalm 34:1  at all times; his praise shall continually be in my mouth.
Psalm 34:2 My soul be glad.
Psalm 34:3 Oh, magnify the LORD with me, and let us exalt his name together!
Psalm 34:4 I sought the LORD, and he answered me and delivered me from all my fears.
Psalm 34:5 Those who look to him are radiant, and their faces shall never be ashamed.
Psalm 34:6  saved him out of all his troubles.
Psalm 34:7  encamps around those who fear him, and delivers them.
Psalm 34:8 Oh,Blessed is the man who takes refuge in him!
Psalm 34:9 Oh, fear the LORD, you his saints, for those who fear him have no lack!
Psalm 34:10  seek the LORD lack no good thing.
Psalm 34:11 I will teach you the fear of the LORD.
Psalm 34:12  see good?
Psalm 34:13  speaking deceit.
Psalm 34:14  pursue it.
Psalm 34:15 and his ears toward their cry.
Psalm 34:16  cut off the memory of them from the earth.
Psalm 34:17  When the righteous cry for help, the LORD hears and delivers them out of all their troubles.
Psalm 34:18 The LORD is near to the crushed in spirit.
Psalm 34:19 but the LORD delivers him out of them all.
Psalm 34:20 He keeps all his bones; not one of them is broken.
Psalm 34:21  Affliction will slay the wicked, and those who hate the righteous will be condemned.
Psalm 34:22 The LORD condemned.
Psalm 35:1 Contend, O LORD, with those whofight against those who fight against me!
Psalm 35:2 Take hold of shield and buckler and rise for my help!
Psalm 35:3 Draw the spear and javelin  against my pursuers! Say to my soul, “I am your salvation!”
Psalm 35:4  turned back and disappointed who devise evil against me!
Psalm 35:5 Let them be like chaff before the wind, with the angel of the LORD driving them away!
Psalm 35:6 Let their way be dark and slippery, with the angel of the LORD pursuing them!
Psalm 35:7 For
Psalm 35:8 Let when he does not know it! And let the net that he hid ensnare him; let him fall into it — to his destruction!
Psalm 35:9 Then my soul will rejoice in the LORD, exulting in his salvation.
Psalm 35:10 All my who is like you, delivering the poor from him who is too strong for him, the poor and needy from him who robs him?”
Psalm 35:11   witnesses rise up; they ask me of things that I do not know.
Psalm 35:12
Psalm 35:13 But I,  on my chest.
Psalm 35:14 I went about as though I grieved for my friend or my brother; as one who laments his mother, I bowed down in mourning.
Psalm 35:15 But at my stumbling they rejoiced and gathered; they gathered together against me; wretches whom I did not know tore at me without ceasing;
Psalm 35:16 like profane mockers at a feast, gnash at me with their teeth.
Psalm 35:17 How long, O Lord, will youmy precious life from the lions!
Psalm 35:18 I will thank you in the great congregation; in the mighty throng I will praise you.
Psalm 35:19  without cause.
Psalm 35:20 For they do not speak peace, but against those who are quiet in the land they devise words of deceit.
Psalm 35:21 They “Aha, Aha! Our eyes have seen it!”
Psalm 35:22  be not far from me!
Psalm 35:23 Awake and my vindication, for my cause, my God and my Lord!
Psalm 35:24  let them not rejoice over me!
Psalm 35:25 Let them not say in their hearts,  “We have swallowed him up.”
Psalm 35:26 Let them be magnify themselves against me!
Psalm 35:27 Let those who delight in my righteousness shout for joy and be glad  delights in the welfare of his servant!”
Psalm 35:28 Then my tongue shall tell of your righteousness and of your praise all the day long.
Psalm 36:1 there is no fear of God before his eyes.
Psalm 36:2  For he flatters himself in his own eyes that his iniquity cannot be found out and hated.
Psalm 36:3 The words of his mouth arehe has ceased to act wisely and do good.
Psalm 36:4 Hehe does not reject evil.
Psalm 36:5 Your steadfast love, O LORD, extends to the heavens, your faithfulness to the clouds.
Psalm 36:6  save, O LORD.
Psalm 36:7  in the shadow of your wings.
Psalm 36:8 They feast on your delights.
Psalm 36:9 For with you isin your light do we see light.
Psalm 36:10 Oh, continue your steadfast love to those who the upright of heart!
Psalm 36:11 Let not the foot of arrogance come upon me, nor the hand of the wicked drive me away.
Psalm 36:12 There unable to rise.
Psalm 37:1  envious of wrongdoers!
Psalm 37:2 For they will soon like the green herb.
Psalm 37:3
Psalm 37:4  give you the desires of your heart.
Psalm 37:5 trust in him, and he will act.
Psalm 37:6  the noonday.
Psalm 37:7  prospers in his way, over the man who carries out evil devices!
Psalm 37:8 Fret not yourself; it tends only to evil.
Psalm 37:9  inherit the land.
Psalm 37:10 In his place, he will not be there.
Psalm 37:11 But abundant peace.
Psalm 37:12 The wicked gnashes his teeth at him,
Psalm 37:13 but the Lord day is coming.
Psalm 37:14 The wicked draw the sword and way is upright;
Psalm 37:15 their sword shall enter their own heart, and their bows shall be broken.
Psalm 37:16  Better is the little that the righteous has than the abundance of many wicked.
Psalm 37:17 For upholds the righteous.
Psalm 37:18 The LORD heritage will remain forever;
Psalm 37:19 they are not put to shame in evil times; in the days of famine they have abundance.
Psalm 37:20 But the wicked will perish; the enemies of the LORD are like smoke they vanish away.
Psalm 37:21 The wicked borrows but does not pay back, but the righteous is generous and gives;
Psalm 37:22 for those blessed by the LORD shall be cut off.
Psalm 37:23 The established by the LORD, when he delights in his way;
Psalm 37:24  upholds his hand.
Psalm 37:25 I have been young, and now am old, yet I have not seen the righteous forsaken or his children begging for bread.
Psalm 37:26 He is ever lending generously, and his children become a blessing.
Psalm 37:27  dwell forever.
Psalm 37:28 For the LORD cut off.
Psalm 37:29 The righteous shall inherit the land and dwell upon it forever.
Psalm 37:30 The mouth of the righteous utters wisdom, and his tongue speaks justice.
Psalm 37:31  steps do not slip.
Psalm 37:32 The wicked watches for the righteous and seeks to put him to death.
Psalm 37:33 The LORD will not be condemned when he is brought to trial.
Psalm 37:34  when the wicked are cut off.
Psalm 37:35
Psalm 37:36 But he passed away, he was no more; though I sought him, he could not be found.
Psalm 37:37 Mark the blameless and behold the upright, for there is a future for the man of peace.
Psalm 37:38 But shall be cut off.
Psalm 37:39  the time of trouble.
Psalm 37:40 The LORD helps them and take refuge in him.
Psalm 38:1  rebuke me not in your anger, nor discipline me in your wrath!
Psalm 38:2 For your has come down on me.
Psalm 38:3 There is bones because of my sin.
Psalm 38:4 For my iniquities have gone over my head; like a heavy burden, they are too heavy for me.
Psalm 38:5 My wounds stink and fester because of my foolishness,
Psalm 38:6 I am go about mourning.
Psalm 38:7 For my sides are filled with burning, and there is no soundness in my flesh.
Psalm 38:8 I am feeble and crushed; I groan because of the tumult of my heart.
Psalm 38:9 O Lord, all my longing is before you; my sighing is not hidden from you.
Psalm 38:10 My heart throbs; my strength fails me, and the light of my eyes — it also has gone from me.
Psalm 38:11 My stand far off.
Psalm 38:12 Those who seek my life treachery all day long.
Psalm 38:13 But I am like a deaf man; I do not hear, like a mute man who does not open his mouth.
Psalm 38:14 I have become like a man who does not hear, and in whose mouth are no rebukes.
Psalm 38:15 But for you, O LORD, do I wait; it is you, O Lord my God, who will answer.
Psalm 38:16 For I said, “Only foot slips!”
Psalm 38:17 For I am ready to fall, and my pain is ever before me.
Psalm 38:18 I sorry for my sin.
Psalm 38:19 But my foes are vigorous, they are mighty, and many are those who hate me wrongfully.
Psalm 38:20 Those who follow after good.
Psalm 38:21 Do not forsake me, O LORD! O my God, be not far from me!
Psalm 38:22  salvation!
Psalm 39:1  guard my mouth with a muzzle, so long as the wicked are in my presence.”
Psalm 39:2 I was mute and silent; I held my peace to no avail, and my distress grew worse.
Psalm 39:3 My heart became hot within me. As I mused, the fire burned; then I spoke with my tongue:
Psalm 39:4 “O LORD, make me know my end and what is the measure of my days; let me know how fleeting I am!
Psalm 39:5 Behold, you have made my days a few handbreadths, and all mankind stands as a mere breath! Selah
Psalm 39:6 Surely a man heaps up wealth and does not know who will gather!
Psalm 39:7 “And now, O Lord, for what do I wait? My hope is in you.
Psalm 39:8 Deliver me from all my transgressions. Do not make me the scorn of the fool!
Psalm 39:9 for it is you who have done it.
Psalm 39:10  Remove your stroke from me; I am spent by the hostility of your hand.
Psalm 39:11 When you discipline a man withsurely all mankind is a mere breath! Selah
Psalm 39:12 a guest, like all my fathers.
Psalm 39:13  am no more!”
Psalm 40:1 I heard my cry.
Psalm 40:2 He drew me up frommaking my steps secure.
Psalm 40:3 He put see and fear, and put their trust in the LORD.
Psalm 40:4 Blessed is the man who go astray after a lie!
Psalm 40:5 You have multiplied, O LORD my God, your more than can be told.
Psalm 40:6   Burnt offering and sin offering you have not required.
Psalm 40:7 Then I said, “Behold, I have come; in the scroll of the book it is written of me:
Psalm 40:8  within my heart.”
Psalm 40:9 I have told the glad news of deliveranceas you know, O LORD.
Psalm 40:10 I have not hidden your deliverance within my heart; I have spoken of your faithfulness and your salvation; I have not concealed your steadfast love and your faithfulness from the great congregation.
Psalm 40:11 As for you, O LORD, you will not restrain your mercy from me; your steadfast love and your faithfulness will ever preserve me!
Psalm 40:12 For evils have fails me.
Psalm 40:13  make haste to help me!
Psalm 40:14  turned back and brought to dishonor who delight in my hurt!
Psalm 40:15 Let those be appalled because of their shame who say to me, “Aha, Aha!”
Psalm 40:16 But may all who seek you rejoice and be glad in you; may those who love your salvation say continually, “Great is the LORD!”
Psalm 40:17 As for me, I am the Lord takes thought for me. You are my help and my deliverer; do not delay, O my God!
Psalm 41:1 In the day of trouble the LORD delivers him;
Psalm 41:2 the LORD protects him and keeps him alive; he is called blessed in the land; you do not give him up to the will of his enemies.
Psalm 41:3 The LORD sustains him on his sickbed; in his illness you restore him to full health.
Psalm 41:4 As for me, I said, “O LORD,  for I have sinned against you!”
Psalm 41:5 My enemies say of me in malice, “When will he die, and his name perish?”
Psalm 41:6 And when one comes to see me, he utters empty words, while his heart gathers iniquity; when he goes out, he tells it abroad.
Psalm 41:7 All who hate me whisper together about me; they imagine the worst for me.
Psalm 41:8 They say, “A deadly thing is poured out  on him; he will not rise again from where he lies.”
Psalm 41:9 Even my ate my bread, has lifted his heel against me.
Psalm 41:10 But you, O LORD, be gracious to me, and raise me up, that I may repay them!
Psalm 41:11 By this I know that you delight in me: my enemy will not shout in triumph over me.
Psalm 41:12 But forever.
Psalm 41:13  Blessed be the LORD, the God of Israel, from everlasting to everlasting! Amen and Amen.
Psalm 42:1  As a deer pants for flowing streams, so pants my soul for you, O God.
Psalm 42:2
Psalm 42:3 while they say to me all the day long, “Where is your God?”
Psalm 42:4 These things I remember, as Ia multitude keeping festival.
Psalm 42:5
Psalm 42:6 and my God.  My soul is cast down within me; therefore I Hermon, from Mount Mizar.
Psalm 42:7 Deep calls to deep at the roar of your waterfalls;  waves have gone over me.
Psalm 42:8 By day the LORD night his song is with me, a prayer to the God of my life.
Psalm 42:9 I say to God,Why do I go mourning because of the oppression of the enemy?”
Psalm 42:10 As with a deadly wound in my bones, my adversaries taunt me, while they say to me all the day long, “Where is your God?”
Psalm 42:11  Why are you cast down, O my soul, and why are you in turmoil within me? Hope in God; for I shall again praise him, my salvation and my God.
Psalm 43:1  the deceitful and unjust man deliver me!
Psalm 43:2 For you are go about mourning because of the oppression of the enemy?
Psalm 43:3  dwelling!
Psalm 43:4 Then I will go to the altar of God, to God my exceeding joy, and I will praise you with the lyre, O God, my God.
Psalm 43:5 Hope in God; for I shall again praise him, my salvation and my God.
Psalm 44:1 in the days of old:
Psalm 44:2 you with your own hand them you set free;
Psalm 44:3 for notfor you delighted in them.
Psalm 44:4 ordain salvation for Jacob!
Psalm 44:5 Through you we tread down those who rise up against us.
Psalm 44:6 For not in my bow do I trust, nor can my sword save me.
Psalm 44:7 But you have saved us from our foes and have put to shame those who hate us.
Psalm 44:8  In God we have boasted continually, and we will give thanks to your name forever. Selah
Psalm 44:9 But you have have not gone out with our armies.
Psalm 44:10 You have made us turn back from the foe, and those who hate us have gotten spoil.
Psalm 44:11 You have made us like scattered us among the nations.
Psalm 44:12  You have sold your people for a trifle, demanding no high price for them.
Psalm 44:13 You have made us scorn of those around us.
Psalm 44:14 You have made us  among the peoples.
Psalm 44:15 All day long my disgrace is before me, and shame has covered my face
Psalm 44:16 at the sound of the taunter and reviler, at the sight of the enemy and the avenger.
Psalm 44:17  All this has come upon us, though we have not forgotten you, and we have not been false to your covenant.
Psalm 44:18 Our heart has not turned back, nor have our departed from your way;
Psalm 44:19 yet you have the shadow of death.
Psalm 44:20 If we had forgotten the name of our God or a foreign god,
Psalm 44:21 For he knows the secrets of the heart.
Psalm 44:22 Yet for your sake we are killed all the day long; we are regarded as sheep to be slaughtered.
Psalm 44:23  Do not reject us forever!
Psalm 44:24 Why do you hide your face? Why do you forget our affliction and oppression?
Psalm 44:25 For our soul is bowed down to the dust; our belly clings to the ground.
Psalm 44:26 Rise up;Redeem us for the sake of your steadfast love!
Psalm 45:1  a ready scribe.
Psalm 45:2 You aregrace is poured upon your lips; therefore God has blessed you forever.
Psalm 45:3  your splendor and majesty!
Psalm 45:4 In your majesty awesome deeds!
Psalm 45:5 Your arrows are sharp in the heart of the king's enemies; the peoples fall under you.
Psalm 45:6  scepter of your kingdom is a scepter of uprightness;
Psalm 45:7  beyond your companions;
Psalm 45:8 your robes are all fragrant with stringed instruments make you glad;
Psalm 45:9 daughters of kings are among your ladies of honor;  gold of Ophir.
Psalm 45:10 Hear, O daughter, and consider, and incline your ear: forget your people and your father's house,
Psalm 45:11 and the king will desire your beauty. Since he is your bow to him.
Psalm 45:12 The people
Psalm 45:13 All glorious is the princess in her chamber, with robes interwoven with gold.
Psalm 45:14  she is led to the king, with her virgin companions following behind her.
Psalm 45:15 With joy and gladness they are led along as they enter the palace of the king.
Psalm 45:16 In place of your fathers shall be your sons; you will make them princes in all the earth.
Psalm 45:17  I will cause your name to be remembered in all generations; therefore nations will praise you forever and ever.
Psalm 46:1  trouble.
Psalm 46:2 Therefore we will not fear the heart of the sea,
Psalm 46:3 though its waters roar and foam, though the mountains tremble at its swelling. Selah
Psalm 46:4 There is habitation of the Most High.
Psalm 46:5  God is in the midst of her; she shall not be moved; God will help her when morning dawns.
Psalm 46:6  melts.
Psalm 46:7  The LORD of hosts is with us; the God of Jacob is our fortress. Selah
Psalm 46:8  Come, behold the works of the LORD, how he has brought desolations on the earth.
Psalm 46:9 he burns the chariots with fire.
Psalm 46:10 I will be exalted among the nations, I will be exalted in the earth!”
Psalm 46:11  The LORD of hosts is with us; the God of Jacob is our fortress. Selah
Psalm 47:1 Shout to God with loud songs of joy!
Psalm 47:2 For the LORD, the Most High,a great king over all the earth.
Psalm 47:3 He subdued peoples under us, and nations under our feet.
Psalm 47:4 He chose ourthe pride of Jacob whom he loves. Selah
Psalm 47:5 God has gone up with a shout, the LORD with the sound of a trumpet.
Psalm 47:6 Sing praises to God, sing praises! Sing praises to our King, sing praises!
Psalm 47:7 For God is
Psalm 47:8 God reigns over the nations; God sits on his holy throne.
Psalm 47:9  the shields of the earth belong to God; he is highly exalted!
Psalm 48:1  holy mountain,
Psalm 48:2 the city of the great King.
Psalm 48:3 Within her citadels God has made himself known as a fortress.
Psalm 48:4 For behold, the kings assembled; they came on together.
Psalm 48:5 As soon as they saw it, they were astounded; they were in panic; they took to flight.
Psalm 48:6  as of a woman in labor.
Psalm 48:7 By Tarshish.
Psalm 48:8 As we have heard, so have we seen in the city of the LORD of hosts, in establish forever. Selah
Psalm 48:9 We have thought on your steadfast love, O God, in the midst of your temple.
Psalm 48:10 As your the ends of the earth. Your right hand is filled with righteousness.
Psalm 48:11 Let Mount the daughters of Judah rejoice because of your judgments!
Psalm 48:12 Walk about Zion, go around her, number her towers,
Psalm 48:13 consider well herthat you may tell the next generation
Psalm 48:14 that this is God, our God forever and ever. He will
Psalm 49:1   Hear this, all peoples! Give ear, all inhabitants of the world,
Psalm 49:2  both low and high, rich and poor together!
Psalm 49:3 My mouth shall speak wisdom; the meditation of my heart shall be understanding.
Psalm 49:4 I will incline my ear to riddle to the music of the lyre.
Psalm 49:5  times of trouble, when the iniquity of those who cheat me surrounds me,
Psalm 49:6 those who trust in their wealth and boast of the abundance of their riches?
Psalm 49:7 Truly no man the price of his life,
Psalm 49:8 for the ransom of their life is costly and can never suffice,
Psalm 49:9 that he should live on forever and never see the pit.
Psalm 49:10 For he sees leave their wealth to others.
Psalm 49:11 Their called lands by their own names.
Psalm 49:12 Man in his pomphe is like the beasts that perish.
Psalm 49:13 This is the path of those who have  Selah
Psalm 49:14 Like sheep they are appointed for Sheol; death shall be their shepherd, and the upright in Sheol, with no place to dwell.
Psalm 49:15 But God will receive me. Selah
Psalm 49:16 Be not afraid when a man becomes rich, when the glory of his house increases.
Psalm 49:17  carry nothing away; his glory will not go down after him.
Psalm 49:18 For though, while he lives, he counts himself blessed — and though you get praise when you do well for yourself —
Psalm 49:19 his soul will see light.
Psalm 49:20  Man in his pomp yet without understanding is like the beasts that perish.
Psalm 50:1 from the rising of the sun to its setting.
Psalm 50:2 Out of Zion,God shines forth.
Psalm 50:3 Our God comes; he fire, around him a mighty tempest.
Psalm 50:4  He calls to the heavens above and to the earth, that he may judge his people:
Psalm 50:5 “Gather to me my faithful ones, who made a covenant with me by sacrifice!”
Psalm 50:6  God himself is judge! Selah
Psalm 50:7 I am God, your God.
Psalm 50:8 Not for your sacrifices do I rebuke you; your burnt offerings are continually before me.
Psalm 50:9 I will not accept a bull from your house or goats from your folds.
Psalm 50:10 For every beast of the forest is mine, the cattle on a thousand hills.
Psalm 50:11  I know all the birds of the hills, and all that moves in the field is mine.
Psalm 50:12 “If I were hungry, I would not tell you, for the world and its fullness are mine.
Psalm 50:13 Do I eat the flesh of bulls or drink the blood of goats?
Psalm 50:14  perform your vows to the Most High,
Psalm 50:15 and glorify me.”
Psalm 50:16 But to the wicked God says: “What right have you to recite my statutes or take my covenant on your lips?
Psalm 50:17 and you cast my words behind you.
Psalm 50:18 If you see a thief,and you keep company with adulterers.
Psalm 50:19 “You give your mouth free rein for evil, and your tongue frames deceit.
Psalm 50:20 You sit and speak against your brother; you slander your own mother's son.
Psalm 50:21 These things you have done, and I lay the charge before you.
Psalm 50:22 “Mark this, then, you who none to deliver!
Psalm 50:23 The one who salvation of God!”
Psalm 51:1 blot out my transgressions.
Psalm 51:2  cleanse me from my sin!
Psalm 51:3  For I know my transgressions, and my sin is ever before me.
Psalm 51:4 so that you may be justified in your words and blameless in your judgment.
Psalm 51:5 Behold, I was brought forth in iniquity, and in sin did my mother conceive me.
Psalm 51:6 Behold, you delight in truth in the inward being, and you teach me wisdom in the secret heart.
Psalm 51:7 Purge me whiter than snow.
Psalm 51:8 Let me hear joy and gladness;  that you have broken rejoice.
Psalm 51:9  blot out all my iniquities.
Psalm 51:10   spirit within me.
Psalm 51:11  your Holy Spirit from me.
Psalm 51:12 Restore to me the joy of your salvation, and uphold me with a willing spirit.
Psalm 51:13 Then I will teach transgressors your ways, and sinners will return to you.
Psalm 51:14 Deliver me from righteousness.
Psalm 51:15 O Lord, open my lips, and my mouth will declare your praise.
Psalm 51:16  For you will not delight in sacrifice, or I would give it; you will not be pleased with a burnt offering.
Psalm 51:17 The sacrifices of God are a broken spirit; a broken and contrite heart, O God, you will not despise.
Psalm 51:18 build up the walls of Jerusalem;
Psalm 51:19 then will you delight in whole burnt offerings; then bulls will be offered on your altar.
Psalm 52:1   Why do you boast of evil, O mighty man? The steadfast love of God endures all the day.
Psalm 52:2 Your worker of deceit.
Psalm 52:3 You love evil more than good, and lying more than speaking what is right. Selah
Psalm 52:4 You love all words that devour, O deceitful tongue.
Psalm 52:5 But God will break you down forever; he will snatch and the land of the living. Selah
Psalm 52:6 The righteous shall laugh at him, saying,
Psalm 52:7 “See the man who would not make God his refuge, but
Psalm 52:8 But I am like a green olive tree in the house of God. I trust in the steadfast love of God forever and ever.
Psalm 52:9 I will thank you forever, because you have done it. I will wait for your name, godly.
Psalm 53:1  The fool says in his heart, “There is no God.” They are corrupt, doing abominable iniquity; there is none who does good.
Psalm 53:2 God looks down from heaven on the children of man to see if there are any who understand,  who seek after God.
Psalm 53:3 They have all fallen away; together they have become corrupt; there is none who does good, not even one.
Psalm 53:4 Have those who work evil no knowledge, who eat up my people as they eat bread, and do not call upon God?
Psalm 53:5 There they are, in great terror,  scatters the bones of him who encamps against you; you put them to shame, for God has rejected them.
Psalm 53:6 Oh, that salvation for Israel would come out of Zion! When God restores the fortunes of his people, let Jacob rejoice, let Israel be glad.
Psalm 54:1  name, and vindicate me by your might.
Psalm 54:2 O God, hear my prayer; give ear to the words of my mouth.
Psalm 54:3  seek my life; they do not set God before themselves. Selah
Psalm 54:4 Behold, God is my helper; the Lord is the upholder of my life.
Psalm 54:5 He will return the evil to my enemies; in your put an end to them.
Psalm 54:6 With a freewill offering I will sacrifice to you; I will give thanks to your name, O LORD, for it is good.
Psalm 54:7 For he has delivered me from every trouble, and my eye has looked in triumph on my enemies.
Psalm 55:1  Give ear to my prayer, O God, and hide not yourself from my plea for mercy!
Psalm 55:2 Attend to me, and answer me; I am restless moan,
Psalm 55:3 because of the noise of the enemy, because of the oppression of the wicked. For they drop trouble upon me, and in anger they bear a grudge against me.
Psalm 55:4 My heart is in anguish within me; the terrors of death have fallen upon me.
Psalm 55:5 Fear and trembling come upon me, and overwhelms me.
Psalm 55:6 And I say, “Oh, that I had wings like a dove! I would fly away and be at rest;
Psalm 55:7  yes, I would wander far away; I would lodge in the wilderness; Selah
Psalm 55:8 I would hurry to find a shelter from the raging wind and tempest.”
Psalm 55:9 Destroy, O Lord, violence and strife in the city.
Psalm 55:10 Day and night they go around it on its walls, and iniquity and trouble are within it;
Psalm 55:11 ruin is in its midst; oppression and fraud do not depart from its marketplace.
Psalm 55:12 For it is not an enemy who taunts me — then I could bear it; it is not an adversary who deals insolently with me — then I could hide from him.
Psalm 55:13  But it is you, a man, my equal, my companion, my familiar friend.
Psalm 55:14 We used to take sweet counsel together; within God's house we walked in the throng.
Psalm 55:15 Let death steal over them; let them go down to Sheol alive; for evil is in their dwelling place and in their heart.
Psalm 55:16 But I call to God, and the LORD will save me.
Psalm 55:17  utter my complaint and moan, and he hears my voice.
Psalm 55:18 He redeems my soul in safety from the battle that I wage, for many are arrayed against me.
Psalm 55:19 God will give ear and humble them, he who is change and do not fear God.
Psalm 55:20 My companion stretched out his hand against his friends; he violated his covenant.
Psalm 55:21 His drawn swords.
Psalm 55:22 he will never permit the righteous to be moved.
Psalm 55:23 But you, O God, trust in you.
Psalm 56:1  tramples on me; all day long an attacker oppresses me;
Psalm 56:2 my enemies trample on me all day long, for many attack me proudly.
Psalm 56:3 When I am afraid, I put my trust in you.
Psalm 56:4 In God, whose word I praise, in God I trust; I shall not be afraid. What can flesh do to me?
Psalm 56:5 All day long they injure my cause;  all their thoughts are against me for evil.
Psalm 56:6 They watch my steps, as they have waited for my life.
Psalm 56:7 For their crime will they escape?  cast down the peoples, O God!
Psalm 56:8 You have kept count of my tossings;Are they not in your book?
Psalm 56:9 Then my enemies will turn back  God is for me.
Psalm 56:10 In God, whose word I praise, in the LORD, whose word I praise,
Psalm 56:11 in God I trust; I shall not be afraid. What can man do to me?
Psalm 56:12 I must perform my render thank offerings to you.
Psalm 56:13 in the light of life.
Psalm 57:1 till the storms of destruction pass by.
Psalm 57:2 I cry out to God Most High, to God who fulfills his purpose for me.
Psalm 57:3  his steadfast love and his faithfulness!
Psalm 57:4 My soul is in the midst of tongues are sharp swords.
Psalm 57:5  Be exalted, O God, above the heavens! Let your glory be over all the earth!
Psalm 57:6 They set dug a pit in my way, but they have fallen into it themselves. Selah
Psalm 57:7  steadfast, O God, my heart is steadfast! I will sing and make melody!
Psalm 57:8  O harp and lyre! I will awake the dawn!
Psalm 57:9 I will give thanks to you, O Lord, among the peoples; I will sing praises to you among the nations.
Psalm 57:10 For your steadfast love is great to the heavens, your faithfulness to the clouds.
Psalm 57:11  Be exalted, O God, above the heavens! Let your glory be over all the earth!
Psalm 58:1   Do you judge the children of man uprightly?
Psalm 58:2 No, in your hearts you devise wrongs; your hands deal out violence on earth.
Psalm 58:3 The wicked are estranged from the womb; they go astray from birth, speaking lies.
Psalm 58:4  They have venom like the venom of a serpent, like the deaf adder that stops its ear,
Psalm 58:5 so that it does not hear the voice of charmers or of the cunning enchanter.
Psalm 58:6 O God, break the teeth in their mouths; tear out the fangs of the young lions, O LORD!
Psalm 58:7 Let them aims his arrows, let them be blunted.
Psalm 58:8 Let them be like the snail the stillborn child who never sees the sun.
Psalm 58:9 Sooner than your pots can feel the heat of
Psalm 58:10  bathe his feet in the blood of the wicked.
Psalm 58:11 Mankind will say, “Surely there is judges on earth.”
Psalm 59:1  rise up against me;
Psalm 59:2 deliver me from bloodthirsty men.
Psalm 59:3 For behold, theyFor no transgression or sin of mine, O LORD,
Psalm 59:4 for no fault of mine, they run and make ready. Awake, come to meet me, and see!
Psalm 59:5 You, LORD God of hosts, are God of Israel. Rouse yourself to punish all the nations; spare none of those who treacherously plot evil. Selah
Psalm 59:6 Each evening they come back, howling like dogs and prowling about the city.
Psalm 59:7 There they are,  “will hear us?”
Psalm 59:8 But you, O LORD, laugh at them; you hold all the nations in derision.
Psalm 59:9 O my Strength, I will watch for you, for you, O God, are my fortress.
Psalm 59:10  look in triumph on my enemies.
Psalm 59:11 Kill them not, lest my people forget; make them totter shield!
Psalm 59:12 For the sin of their mouths, the words of their lips, let them be trapped in their pride. For the cursing and lies that they utter,
Psalm 59:13  the ends of the earth. Selah
Psalm 59:14  Each evening they come back, howling like dogs and prowling about the city.
Psalm 59:15 They wander about for food and growl if they do not get their fill.
Psalm 59:16 But I will sing of your strength; I will sing aloud of your steadfast love in the morning. For you have been to me the day of my distress.
Psalm 59:17 O my Strength, I will sing praises to you, for you, O God,the God who shows me steadfast love.
Psalm 60:1  oh, restore us.
Psalm 60:2 You have made the land to quake; you have torn it open; repair its breaches, for it totters.
Psalm 60:3  wine to drink that made us stagger.
Psalm 60:4 You have set up  Selah
Psalm 60:5  beloved ones may be delivered, give salvation by your right hand and answer us!
Psalm 60:6 God has spoken Succoth.
Psalm 60:7  scepter.
Psalm 60:8
Psalm 60:9 Who will bring me to the fortified city? Who will lead me to Edom?
Psalm 60:10 Have you not do not go forth, O God, with our armies.
Psalm 60:11 Oh, grant us help against the foe, for vain is the salvation of man!
Psalm 60:12 With God we shall tread down our foes.
Psalm 61:1 listen to my prayer;
Psalm 61:2 from the end of the earth I call to you when my heart is the rock that is higher than I,
Psalm 61:3 for you have been tower against the enemy.
Psalm 61:4 Let me the shelter of your wings! Selah
Psalm 61:5 For you, O God, have heard my vows; you have given me the heritage of those who fear your name.
Psalm 61:6  the life of the king; may his years endure to all generations!
Psalm 61:7 May he be enthroned forever before God; appoint steadfast love and faithfulness to watch over him!
Psalm 61:8 So will I ever sing praises to your name, as I perform my vows day after day.
Psalm 62:1  waits in silence; from him comes my salvation.
Psalm 62:2  I shall not be greatly shaken.
Psalm 62:3 How long will all of you attack a man to batter him, like a leaning wall, a tottering fence?
Psalm 62:4 They only plan to thrust him down from hisThey bless with their mouths, but inwardly they curse. Selah
Psalm 62:5 For God alone, O my soul, wait in silence, for my hope is from him.
Psalm 62:6  He only is my rock and my salvation, my fortress; I shall not be shaken.
Psalm 62:7 On God rests my my refuge is God.
Psalm 62:8  a refuge for us. Selah
Psalm 62:9 they are together lighter than a breath.
Psalm 62:10 Put no trust in extortion; if riches increase, set not your heart on them.
Psalm 62:11  power belongs to God,
Psalm 62:12 and that to you, O Lord, render to a man according to his work.
Psalm 63:1  a dry and weary land where there is no water.
Psalm 63:2 So I have looked upon you in the sanctuary, beholding your power and glory.
Psalm 63:3 Because your steadfast love is better than life, my lips will praise you.
Psalm 63:4 So I will bless you lift up my hands.
Psalm 63:5 My soul will be satisfied as with fat and rich food, and my mouth will praise you with joyful lips,
Psalm 63:6 when I remember you the watches of the night;
Psalm 63:7 for you have been my help, and in the shadow of your wings I will sing for joy.
Psalm 63:8 My soul upholds me.
Psalm 63:9 But those who seek to destroy my life  the depths of the earth;
Psalm 63:10 they shall be given over to the power of the sword; they shall be a portion for jackals.
Psalm 63:11 But liars will be stopped.
Psalm 64:1 Hear my voice, O God, in my complaint; preserve my life from dread of the enemy.
Psalm 64:2 Hide me from the secret plots of the wicked, from the throng of evildoers,
Psalm 64:3 who aim bitter words like arrows,
Psalm 64:4 shooting from without fear.
Psalm 64:5 They “Who can see them?”
Psalm 64:6 They search out injustice, saying, “We have accomplished a diligent search.” For the inward mind and heart of a man are deep.
Psalm 64:7  But God shoots his arrow at them; they are wounded suddenly.
Psalm 64:8 They are brought to ruin, with their own wag their heads.
Psalm 64:9 Then all mankind tell what God has brought about and ponder what he has done.
Psalm 64:10 Let the upright in heart exult!
Psalm 65:1 Praise vows be performed.
Psalm 65:2 O you who shall all flesh come.
Psalm 65:3 When atone for our transgressions.
Psalm 65:4  satisfied with the goodness of your house, the holiness of your temple!
Psalm 65:5 By the ends of the earth and of the farthest seas;
Psalm 65:6 the one who by his strength established the mountains, being girded with might;
Psalm 65:7 whothe tumult of the peoples,
Psalm 65:8 so that those who dwell at the ends of the earth are in awe at your signs. You make the going out of the morning and the evening to shout for joy.
Psalm 65:9 You visit the earth andyou provide their grain, for so you have prepared it.
Psalm 65:10 You water its furrows abundantly, settling its ridges, softening it with showers, and blessing its growth.
Psalm 65:11 You crown the year with your bounty; your wagon tracks overflow with abundance.
Psalm 65:12  gird themselves with joy,
Psalm 65:13  shout and sing together for joy.
Psalm 66:1  Shout for joy to God, all the earth;
Psalm 66:2 sing the glory of his name; give to him glorious praise!
Psalm 66:3 Say to God, come cringing to you.
Psalm 66:4  All the earth worships you and sings praises to you; they sing praises to your name.” Selah
Psalm 66:5 he is awesome in his deeds toward the children of man.
Psalm 66:6 He passed through the river on foot. There did we rejoice in him,
Psalm 66:7 who rules by his might forever, whose eyes keep watch on the nations — let not the rebellious exalt themselves. Selah
Psalm 66:8 Bless our God, O peoples; let the sound of his praise be heard,
Psalm 66:9 who has kept our soul among the living and has not let our feet slip.
Psalm 66:10 For you, O God, have tested us; you have tried us as silver is tried.
Psalm 66:11 You brought us into the net; you laid a crushing burden on our backs;
Psalm 66:12 you let men water; yet you have brought us out to a place of abundance.
Psalm 66:13 I will come into your house with burnt offerings; I will perform my vows to you,
Psalm 66:14 that which my lips uttered and my mouth promised when I was in trouble.
Psalm 66:15 I will offer to you burnt offerings of fattened animals, with the smoke of the sacrifice of rams; I will make an offering of bulls and goats. Selah
Psalm 66:16  Come and hear, all you who fear God, and I will tell what he has done for my soul.
Psalm 66:17 I cried to him with my mouth, and high praise was on
Psalm 66:18 If I hadthe Lord would not have listened.
Psalm 66:19 But truly God has listened; he has attended to the voice of my prayer.
Psalm 66:20 Blessed be God, because he has not rejected my prayer or removed his steadfast love from me!
Psalm 67:1  shine upon us, Selah
Psalm 67:2 that saving power among all nations.
Psalm 67:3  Let the peoples praise you, O God; let all the peoples praise you!
Psalm 67:4 Let the nations be glad and sing for joy, for you judge the peoples with equity and guide the nations upon earth. Selah
Psalm 67:5  Let the peoples praise you, O God; let all the peoples praise you!
Psalm 67:6 The earth has yielded its increase; God, our God, shall bless us.
Psalm 67:7 God shall bless us; let all the ends of the earth fear him!
Psalm 68:1  scattered; and those who hate him shall flee before him!
Psalm 68:2 Asas wax melts before fire, so the wicked shall perish before God!
Psalm 68:3 But the righteous shall be glad; they shall exult before God; they shall be jubilant with joy!
Psalm 68:4 Sing to God, the LORD; exult before him!
Psalm 68:5  protector of widows is God in his holy habitation.
Psalm 68:6 God a parched land.
Psalm 68:7 O God, when you the wilderness, Selah
Psalm 68:8   the God of Israel.
Psalm 68:9  Rain in abundance, O God, you shed abroad; you restored your inheritance as it languished;
Psalm 68:10 your flock provided for the needy.
Psalm 68:11 The Lord givesthe women who announce the news are a great host:
Psalm 68:12  divide the spoil —
Psalm 68:13 though you men lie among the sheepfolds — the wings of a dove covered with silver, its pinions with shimmering gold.
Psalm 68:14 When the Almighty scatters kings there, let snow fall on Zalmon.
Psalm 68:15 O mountain of God, mountain of Bashan; O many-peaked  mountain, mountain of Bashan!
Psalm 68:16 Why do you look with hatred, O many-peaked mountain, at the mount that God desired for his abode, yes, where the LORD will dwell forever?
Psalm 68:17  The chariots of God are twice ten thousand, thousands upon thousands; the Lord is among them; Sinai is now in the sanctuary.
Psalm 68:18  that the LORD God may dwell there.
Psalm 68:19 Blessed be the Lord, who daily bears us up; God is our salvation. Selah
Psalm 68:20 Our God is a God of salvation, and to GOD, the Lord, belong deliverances from death.
Psalm 68:21  But God will strike the heads of his enemies, the hairy crown of him who walks in his guilty ways.
Psalm 68:22 The Lord said, “I will bring them backI will bring them back from the depths of the sea,
Psalm 68:23 that you may the tongues of your dogs may have their portion from the foe.”
Psalm 68:24 Your procession is  seen, O God, the procession of my God, my King, into the sanctuary —
Psalm 68:25  virgins playing tambourines:
Psalm 68:26  Israel's fountain!”
Psalm 68:27 There is Zebulun, the princes of Naphtali.
Psalm 68:28   the power, O God, by which you have worked for us.
Psalm 68:29 Because of your temple at Jerusalem kings shall bear gifts to you.
Psalm 68:30 Rebuke
Psalm 68:31 Nobles shall come from stretch out her hands to God.
Psalm 68:32  O kingdoms of the earth, sing to God; sing praises to the Lord, Selah
Psalm 68:33 to him sends out his voice, his mighty voice.
Psalm 68:34  the skies.
Psalm 68:35  power and strength to his people. Blessed be God!
Psalm 69:1
Psalm 69:2 I sink in deep sweeps over me.
Psalm 69:3  waiting for my God.
Psalm 69:4 those who attack me with lies. What I did not steal must I now restore?
Psalm 69:5 O God, you know my folly; the wrongs I have done are not hidden from you.
Psalm 69:6 Let not those who hope in you be put to shame through me, O Lord GOD of hosts; let not those who seek you be brought to dishonor through me, O God of Israel.
Psalm 69:7 For it is for your sake that I have borne reproach, that dishonor has covered my face.
Psalm 69:8 I have become a stranger to my brothers, an alien to my mother's sons.
Psalm 69:9 For the reproaches of those who reproach you have fallen on me.
Psalm 69:10 When I wept and humbled  my soul with fasting, it became my reproach.
Psalm 69:11 When I made a byword to them.
Psalm 69:12 I am the talk of those who songs about me.
Psalm 69:13 But as for me, my an acceptable time, O God, in the abundance of your steadfast love answer me in your saving faithfulness.
Psalm 69:14 Deliver me from sinking in the deep waters.
Psalm 69:15 Let not the flood sweep over me, or the deep swallow me up, or its mouth over me.
Psalm 69:16 Answer me, O LORD, for your turn to me.
Psalm 69:17  make haste to answer me.
Psalm 69:18 Draw near to my soul, redeem me; ransom me because of my enemies!
Psalm 69:19 You know my reproach, and my shame and my dishonor; my foes are all known to you.
Psalm 69:20  comforters, but I found none.
Psalm 69:21 They gave me sour wine to drink.
Psalm 69:22
Psalm 69:23 and make their loins tremble continually.
Psalm 69:24 Pour out your indignation upon them, and let your burning anger overtake them.
Psalm 69:25  May their camp be a desolation; let no one dwell in their tents.
Psalm 69:26 For they those you have wounded.
Psalm 69:27
Psalm 69:28 Let them be enrolled among the righteous.
Psalm 69:29 But I am afflicted and in pain; let your salvation, O God, set me on high!
Psalm 69:30 I will thanksgiving.
Psalm 69:31 This will with horns and hoofs.
Psalm 69:32 When let your hearts revive.
Psalm 69:33 For the LORD hears the needy and does not despise his own people who are prisoners.
Psalm 69:34 Let heaven and earth praise him, the seas and everything that moves in them.
Psalm 69:35 For God will save Zion and build up the cities of Judah, and people shall dwell there and possess it;
Psalm 69:36  the offspring of his servants shall inherit it, and those who love his name shall dwell in it.
Psalm 70:1   Make haste, O God, to deliver me! O LORD, make haste to help me!
Psalm 70:2 Let them be put to shame and confusion who seek my life! Let them be turned back and brought to dishonor who delight in my hurt!
Psalm 70:3 Let them turn back because of their shame who say, “Aha, Aha!”
Psalm 70:4 May all who seek you rejoice and be glad in you! May those who love your salvation say evermore, “God is great!”
Psalm 70:5 But I am poor and needy; hasten to me, O God! You are my help and my deliverer; O LORD, do not delay!
Psalm 71:1  In you, O LORD, do I take refuge; let me never be put to shame!
Psalm 71:2 In your righteousness deliver me and rescue me; incline your ear to me, and save me!
Psalm 71:3 Be to me a rock of rock and my fortress.
Psalm 71:4  Rescue me, O my God, from the hand of the wicked, from the grasp of the unjust and cruel man.
Psalm 71:5 For you, O Lord, are my hope, my trust, O LORD, from my youth.
Psalm 71:6 Upon you I have leaned took me from my mother's womb. My praise is continually of you.
Psalm 71:7 I have been as a portent to many, but you are my strong refuge.
Psalm 71:8 My mouth is filled with your praise, and with your glory all the day.
Psalm 71:9  Do not cast me off in the time of old age; forsake me not when my strength is spent.
Psalm 71:10 For my enemies speak concerning me; those who consult together
Psalm 71:11 and say, “God has forsaken him; pursue and seize him, for there is none to deliver him.”
Psalm 71:12 O God, be not make haste to help me!
Psalm 71:13 May my accusers be seek my hurt.
Psalm 71:14 But I will praise you yet more and more.
Psalm 71:15 My their number is past my knowledge.
Psalm 71:16 With the mighty deeds of the Lord GOD I will come; I will remind them of your righteousness, yours alone.
Psalm 71:17 O God, from my youth you have taught me, and I still proclaim your wondrous deeds.
Psalm 71:18 So even to do not forsake me, until I proclaim your might to another generation, your power to all those to come.
Psalm 71:19 Your who is like you?
Psalm 71:20 You who have revive me again; from the depths of the earth you will bring me up again.
Psalm 71:21 You will increase my greatness and comfort me again.
Psalm 71:22 I will also praise you with Holy One of Israel.
Psalm 71:23 My lips will shout for joy, when I sing praises to you; my soul also, which you have redeemed.
Psalm 71:24 And my put to shame and disappointed who sought to do me hurt.
Psalm 72:1  justice, O God, and your righteousness to the royal son!
Psalm 72:2 May he judge your people with righteousness, and your poor with justice!
Psalm 72:3 Let the mountains bear prosperity for the people, and the hills, in righteousness!
Psalm 72:4 May he defend the cause of the poor of the people, give deliverance to the children of the needy, and crush the oppressor!
Psalm 72:5 May they fear you throughout all generations!
Psalm 72:6 May he be like showers that water the earth!
Psalm 72:7 In his days may peace abound, till the moon be no more!
Psalm 72:8 May he have dominion from ends of the earth!
Psalm 72:9 May desert tribes lick the dust!
Psalm 72:10 May the kings of Seba bring gifts!
Psalm 72:11 May all kings fall down before him, all nations serve him!
Psalm 72:12 For he delivers the needy when he calls, the poor and him who has no helper.
Psalm 72:13 He has pity on the weak and the needy, and saves the lives of the needy.
Psalm 72:14 From oppression and violence he redeems their life, and precious is their blood in his sight.
Psalm 72:15 Long may he live; may for him continually, and blessings invoked for him all the day!
Psalm 72:16 May there be abundance of grain in the land; on the tops of the mountains may it wave; may its fruit be like Lebanon; and may people grass of the field!
Psalm 72:17 all nations call him blessed!
Psalm 72:18  wondrous things.
Psalm 72:19 Blessed be hisAmen and Amen!
Psalm 72:20  David, the son of Jesse, are ended.
Psalm 73:1  pure in heart.
Psalm 73:2 But as for me, my feet had almost stumbled, my steps had nearly slipped.
Psalm 73:3  prosperity of the wicked.
Psalm 73:4 For they have no pangs until death; their bodies are fat and sleek.
Psalm 73:5 They are not in trouble as others are; they are not stricken like the rest of mankind.
Psalm 73:6 Therefore pride is a garment.
Psalm 73:7 Their eyes swell out through fatness; their hearts overflow with follies.
Psalm 73:8 They scoff and speak with malice; loftily they threaten oppression.
Psalm 73:9 They set their mouths against the heavens, and their tongue struts through the earth.
Psalm 73:10 Therefore his people turn back to them, and find
Psalm 73:11 And they say, “How can God know? Is there knowledge in the Most High?”
Psalm 73:12 Behold, these are the wicked; always at ease, they increase in riches.
Psalm 73:13 All in vain have I washed my hands in innocence.
Psalm 73:14 For all the day long I have been every morning.
Psalm 73:15 If I had said, “I will speak thus,” I would have betrayed the generation of your children.
Psalm 73:16 But when I thought how to understand this, it seemed to me a wearisome task,
Psalm 73:17 until I went into end.
Psalm 73:18 Truly you set them in slippery places; you make them fall to ruin.
Psalm 73:19 How they are destroyed terrors!
Psalm 73:20 Like you rouse yourself, you despise them as phantoms.
Psalm 73:21 When my soul was embittered, when I was pricked in heart,
Psalm 73:22 I was a beast toward you.
Psalm 73:23 Nevertheless, I am continually with you; you hold my right hand.
Psalm 73:24 You receive me to glory.
Psalm 73:25  Whom have I in heaven but you? And there is nothing on earth that I desire besides you.
Psalm 73:26  forever.
Psalm 73:27 For behold, those who are unfaithful to you.
Psalm 73:28 But for me it is good to tell of all your works.
Psalm 74:1  the sheep of your pasture?
Psalm 74:2  where you have dwelt.
Psalm 74:3 Direct your steps to the perpetual ruins; the enemy has destroyed everything in the sanctuary!
Psalm 74:4 Your foes have signs.
Psalm 74:5 They were like those who swing
Psalm 74:6 And all its carved wood they broke down with hatchets and hammers.
Psalm 74:7 They the dwelling place of your name, bringing it down to the ground.
Psalm 74:8 They said to themselves, “We will utterly subdue them”; they burned all the meeting places of God in the land.
Psalm 74:9 We do not see ourthere is no longer any prophet, and there is none among us who knows how long.
Psalm 74:10 How long, O God, is the foe to scoff? Is the enemy to revile your name forever?
Psalm 74:11 Why  and destroy them!
Psalm 74:12 Yet God my King is from of old, working salvation in the midst of the earth.
Psalm 74:13 You  on the waters.
Psalm 74:14 You crushed the heads of Leviathan; you gave him as food for the creatures of the wilderness.
Psalm 74:15 You dried up ever-flowing streams.
Psalm 74:16 Yours is the day, yours also the night; you have established the heavenly lights and the sun.
Psalm 74:17 You have summer and winter.
Psalm 74:18  a foolish people reviles your name.
Psalm 74:19 Do not deliver the soul of yourdo not forget the life of your poor forever.
Psalm 74:20 Have regard for the dark places of the land are full of the habitations of violence.
Psalm 74:21 Let not the poor and needy praise your name.
Psalm 74:22 Arise, O God,remember how the foolish scoff at you all the day!
Psalm 74:23 Do not forget the clamor of your foes, the uproar of those who rise against you, which goes up continually!
Psalm 75:1   recount your wondrous deeds.
Psalm 75:2 “At with equity.
Psalm 75:3 When the earth pillars. Selah
Psalm 75:4 I say to the boastful, ‘Do not boast,’ and to the wicked, ‘Do not lift up your horn;
Psalm 75:5 do not lift up your horn on high, or speak with haughty neck.’”
Psalm 75:6 For not from the east or from the west and not from the wilderness comes lifting up,
Psalm 75:7 but it isputting down one and lifting up another.
Psalm 75:8  drain it down to the dregs.
Psalm 75:9 But I will declare it forever; I will sing praises to the God of Jacob.
Psalm 75:10 but the horns of the righteous shall be lifted up.
Psalm 76:1  known; his name is great in Israel.
Psalm 76:2 His dwelling place in Zion.
Psalm 76:3 There he broke the flashing arrows, the shield, the sword, and the weapons of war. Selah
Psalm 76:4 Glorious are you, more majestic  prey.
Psalm 76:5 they sank into sleep; all the men of war were unable to use their hands.
Psalm 76:6 At your rebuke, O God of Jacob, both rider and horse lay stunned.
Psalm 76:7  stand before you when once your anger is roused?
Psalm 76:8 From the heavens you uttered judgment; the earth feared and was still,
Psalm 76:9 when God arose to establish judgment, to save all the humble of the earth. Selah
Psalm 76:10 Surely  of wrath you will put on like a belt.
Psalm 76:11  is to be feared,
Psalm 76:12 who is to be feared by the kings of the earth.
Psalm 77:1  cry aloud to God, aloud to God, and he will hear me.
Psalm 77:2  refuses to be comforted.
Psalm 77:3 When I remember God, I moan; when I meditate, my spirit faints. Selah
Psalm 77:4 You hold my eyelids open; I am so troubled that I cannot speak.
Psalm 77:5 I consider the days of old, the years long ago.
Psalm 77:6 I said, meditate in my heart.” Then my spirit made a diligent search:
Psalm 77:7 “Will the Lord be favorable?
Psalm 77:8 Has his steadfast love forever ceased? Are his promises at an end for all time?
Psalm 77:9 Has he in anger shut up his compassion?” Selah
Psalm 77:10 Then I said, “I will appeal to this, to the years of the
Psalm 77:11 I will remember the deeds of the LORD; yes, I will remember your wonders of old.
Psalm 77:12 I will ponder all your mighty deeds.
Psalm 77:13 Your way, O God, isWhat god is great like our God?
Psalm 77:14 You are the God who made known your might among the peoples.
Psalm 77:15 You with your arm redeemed your people, the children of Jacob and Joseph. Selah
Psalm 77:16 When the waters saw you, O God, when the waters saw you, they were afraid; indeed, the deep trembled.
Psalm 77:17 The clouds poured out water; the skies arrows flashed on every side.
Psalm 77:18  trembled and shook.
Psalm 77:19 Your
Psalm 77:20 You led your people like a flock by the hand of Moses and Aaron.
Psalm 78:1  Give ear, O my people, to my teaching; incline your ears to the words of my mouth!
Psalm 78:2  in a parable; I will utter dark sayings from of old,
Psalm 78:3 things that we have heard and known, that our fathers have told us.
Psalm 78:4 We will not the wonders that he has done.
Psalm 78:5 He established Israel, which he commanded our fathers to teach to their children,
Psalm 78:6 that the next generation might know them, the children yet unborn, and arise and tell them to their children,
Psalm 78:7 so that they should set their hope in God and not forget keep his commandments;
Psalm 78:8 and that they should not be whose heart was not steadfast, whose spirit was not faithful to God.
Psalm 78:9 The Ephraimites, armed withturned back on the day of battle.
Psalm 78:10 They did not keep God's covenant, but refused to walk according to his law.
Psalm 78:11 They the wonders that he had shown them.
Psalm 78:12 In the sight of their fathers the fields of Zoan.
Psalm 78:13 He stand like a heap.
Psalm 78:14  In the daytime he led them with a cloud, and all the night with a fiery light.
Psalm 78:15 He split rocks in the wilderness and gave them drink abundantly as from the deep.
Psalm 78:16 He made streams come out of the rock and caused waters to flow down like rivers.
Psalm 78:17 Yet they sinned still more against him, rebelling against the Most High in the desert.
Psalm 78:18 They tested God in their heart by demanding the food they craved.
Psalm 78:19 They spoke against God, saying,  spread a table in the wilderness?
Psalm 78:20  He struck the rock so that water gushed out and streams overflowed. Can he also give bread or provide meat for his people?”
Psalm 78:21 Therefore, when the LORD heard, he was full of wrath; a fire was kindled against Jacob; his anger rose against Israel,
Psalm 78:22 because they did not believe in God and did not trust his saving power.
Psalm 78:23 Yet he commanded the skies above and opened the doors of heaven,
Psalm 78:24 and he the grain of heaven.
Psalm 78:25 Man ate of the bread of in abundance.
Psalm 78:26 He caused the east wind to blow in the heavens, and by his power he led out the south wind;
Psalm 78:27 he rained meat on them like the sand of the seas;
Psalm 78:28 he let them fall in the midst of their camp, all around their dwellings.
Psalm 78:29 And they craved.
Psalm 78:30 But before they had satisfied their craving, while the food was still in their mouths,
Psalm 78:31 the anger of God rose against them, and he killed the young men of Israel.
Psalm 78:32 In spite of all this, theydespite his wonders, they did not believe.
Psalm 78:33 So he made  and their years in terror.
Psalm 78:34 When he killed them, they sought him; they repented and sought God earnestly.
Psalm 78:35 They remembered that God was their redeemer.
Psalm 78:36 But they lied to him with their tongues.
Psalm 78:37 Their steadfast toward him; they were not faithful to his covenant.
Psalm 78:38 Yet he, beingatoned for their iniquity and did not destroy them; he restrained his anger often and did not stir up all his wrath.
Psalm 78:39 Hea wind that passes and comes not again.
Psalm 78:40 How often they the desert!
Psalm 78:41 They the Holy One of Israel.
Psalm 78:42 They  or the day when he redeemed them from the foe,
Psalm 78:43  the fields of Zoan.
Psalm 78:44 He turned their rivers to blood, so that they could not drink of their streams.
Psalm 78:45 He sent among them swarms of frogs, which destroyed them.
Psalm 78:46 He gave their crops to the destroying locust and the fruit of their labor to the locust.
Psalm 78:47 He destroyed their vines with hail and their sycamores with frost.
Psalm 78:48 He gave over their cattle to the hail and their flocks to thunderbolts.
Psalm 78:49 He let loose on them his burning anger, wrath, indignation, and distress, a company of destroying angels.
Psalm 78:50 He made a path for his anger; he did not spare them from death, but gave their lives over to the plague.
Psalm 78:51 He struck down every Ham.
Psalm 78:52 Then he led out his people like sheep and guided them in the wilderness like a flock.
Psalm 78:53  the sea overwhelmed their enemies.
Psalm 78:54 And he brought them to his won.
Psalm 78:55 He apportioned them for a possession and settled the tribes of Israel in their tents.
Psalm 78:56 Yet they rebelled against the Most High God and did not keep his testimonies,
Psalm 78:57 but turned away and acted treacherously like their fathers; they twisted like a deceitful bow.
Psalm 78:58 For they idols.
Psalm 78:59 When God heard, he was full of wrath, and he utterly rejected Israel.
Psalm 78:60 He Shiloh, the tent where he dwelt among mankind,
Psalm 78:61 and delivered his glory to the hand of the foe.
Psalm 78:62 He vented his wrath on his heritage.
Psalm 78:63  marriage song.
Psalm 78:64 Their widows made no lamentation.
Psalm 78:65 Then the Lord awoke as from sleep, like a strong man shouting because of wine.
Psalm 78:66 And he put his adversaries to rout; he put them to everlasting shame.
Psalm 78:67 He rejected the tent of Joseph; he did not choose the tribe of Ephraim,
Psalm 78:68 but he chose the tribe of Judah, Mount Zion, which he loves.
Psalm 78:69 He built his sanctuary like the high heavens, like the earth, which he has founded forever.
Psalm 78:70 He chose David his servant and took him from the sheepfolds;
Psalm 78:71 from inheritance.
Psalm 78:72 With guided them with his skillful hand.
Psalm 79:1  laid Jerusalem in ruins.
Psalm 79:2 They have given the beasts of the earth.
Psalm 79:3 They have poured out their blood like water all around Jerusalem, and there was no one to bury them.
Psalm 79:4 We have becomemocked and derided by those around us.
Psalm 79:5  burn like fire?
Psalm 79:6  do not call upon your name!
Psalm 79:7 For they have devoured Jacob and laid waste his habitation.
Psalm 79:8  brought very low.
Psalm 79:9  name's sake!
Psalm 79:10  the avenging of the outpoured blood of your servants be known among the nations before our eyes!
Psalm 79:11 Let doomed to die!
Psalm 79:12 Return taunts with which they have taunted you, O Lord!
Psalm 79:13 But we your people, the give thanks to you forever; from generation to generation we will recount your praise.
Psalm 80:1  shine forth.
Psalm 80:2 Before come to save us!
Psalm 80:3 let your face shine, that we may be saved!
Psalm 80:4 Ohow long will you be angry with your people's prayers?
Psalm 80:5 You have fed them with the bread of tears and given them tears to drink in full measure.
Psalm 80:6  neighbors, and our enemies laugh among themselves.
Psalm 80:7  Restore us, O God of hosts; let your face shine, that we may be saved!
Psalm 80:8 You brought drove out the nations and planted it.
Psalm 80:9 You cleared the ground for it; it took deep root and filled the land.
Psalm 80:10 The mountains were covered with its shade, the mighty cedars with its branches.
Psalm 80:11 It sent out its branches to
Psalm 80:12 Why then have you broken down its walls, so that all who pass along the way pluck its fruit?
Psalm 80:13  The boar from the forest ravages it, and all that move in the field feed on it.
Psalm 80:14 Turn again, O God of hosts! Look down from heaven, and see; have regard for this vine,
Psalm 80:15 the stock that your right hand planted, and for the son whom you made strong for yourself.
Psalm 80:16 They have the rebuke of your face!
Psalm 80:17 But let your hand be on the man of your right hand, the son of man whom you have made strong for yourself!
Psalm 80:18 Then we shall not turn back from you; give us life, and we will call upon your name!
Psalm 80:19  Restore us, O LORD God of hosts! Let your face shine, that we may be saved!
Psalm 81:1 shout for joy to the God of Jacob!
Psalm 81:2 Raise a song; sound the harp.
Psalm 81:3 Blow the trumpet at the new moon, at the full moon, on our feast day.
Psalm 81:4 For it is a statute for Israel, a rule  of the God of Jacob.
Psalm 81:5 He made it I had not known:
Psalm 81:6 “I the burden; your hands were freed from the basket.
Psalm 81:7 In distress you tested you at the waters of Meribah. Selah
Psalm 81:8  Hear, O my people, while I admonish you! O Israel, if you would but listen to me!
Psalm 81:9 There shall be no foreign god.
Psalm 81:10 Open your mouth wide, and I will fill it.
Psalm 81:11 “But my people did not listen to my voice; Israel would not submit to me.
Psalm 81:12 So I counsels.
Psalm 81:13  walk in my ways!
Psalm 81:14 I would soon subdue their enemies and turn my hand against their foes.
Psalm 81:15 Those who hate the LORD would cringe toward him, and their fate would last forever.
Psalm 81:16 But he would feed you honey from the rock I would satisfy you.”
Psalm 82:1  holds judgment:
Psalm 82:2 “How long will you judge unjustly and the wicked? Selah
Psalm 82:3 maintain the right of the afflicted and the destitute.
Psalm 82:4 deliver them from the hand of the wicked.”
Psalm 82:5  shaken.
Psalm 82:6  I said, “You are gods, sons of the Most High, all of you;
Psalm 82:7 nevertheless, like men
Psalm 82:8  inherit all the nations!
Psalm 83:1 do not hold your peace or be still, O God!
Psalm 83:2 For behold, your enemies raised their heads.
Psalm 83:3 They lay treasured ones.
Psalm 83:4 They say, “Come, let us wipe them out as a nation; let the name of Israel be remembered no more!”
Psalm 83:5 For they conspire with one accord; against you they make a covenant —
Psalm 83:6 the tents of the Hagrites,
Psalm 83:7  Tyre;
Psalm 83:8  the children of Lot. Selah
Psalm 83:9 Do to them as you did to the river Kishon,
Psalm 83:10 who were destroyed at dung for the ground.
Psalm 83:11 Make their nobles like Zebah and Zalmunna,
Psalm 83:12 who said, “Let us take possession for ourselves of the pastures of God.”
Psalm 83:13 O my God, make them like chaff before the wind.
Psalm 83:14 As sets the mountains ablaze,
Psalm 83:15 so may you pursue them with your tempest and terrify them with your hurricane!
Psalm 83:16  Fill their faces with shame, that they may seek your name, O LORD.
Psalm 83:17 Let them be put to shame and dismayed forever; let them perish in disgrace,
Psalm 83:18 that they may the Most High over all the earth.
Psalm 84:1  dwelling place, O LORD of hosts!
Psalm 84:2 My soul the living God.
Psalm 84:3 Even the sparrow finds a home, and the swallow a nest for herself, where she may lay her young, at your altars, O LORD of hosts, my King and my God.
Psalm 84:4  singing your praise! Selah
Psalm 84:5 Blessed are those whose strength is in you,
Psalm 84:6 As they go through the Valley of Baca they make it a place of springs;  pools.
Psalm 84:7 They go appears before God in Zion.
Psalm 84:8 O LORD God of hosts, hear my prayer; give ear, O God of Jacob! Selah
Psalm 84:9  shield, O God; look on the face of your anointed!
Psalm 84:10 For a day a doorkeeper in the house of my God than dwell in the tents of wickedness.
Psalm 84:11 For the LORD God is walk uprightly.
Psalm 84:12 O LORD of hosts, blessed is the one who trusts in you!
Psalm 85:1  restored the fortunes of Jacob.
Psalm 85:2 You covered all their sin. Selah
Psalm 85:3 You withdrew all your wrath; you turned from your hot anger.
Psalm 85:4  Restore us again, O God of our salvation, and put away your indignation toward us!
Psalm 85:5  Will you be angry with us forever? Will you prolong your anger to all generations?
Psalm 85:6 Will you not rejoice in you?
Psalm 85:7 Show us your steadfast love, O LORD, and grant us your salvation.
Psalm 85:8  folly.
Psalm 85:9 Surely his glory may dwell in our land.
Psalm 85:10 righteousness and peace kiss each other.
Psalm 85:11 Faithfulness springs up from the ground, and righteousness looks down from the sky.
Psalm 85:12 Yes, will yield its increase.
Psalm 85:13  Righteousness will go before him and make his footsteps a way.
Psalm 86:1  poor and needy.
Psalm 86:2 Preserve my life, for I am trusts in you — you are my God.
Psalm 86:3  Be gracious to me, O Lord, for to you do I cry all the day.
Psalm 86:4 Gladden the soul of your servant, for to you, O Lord, do I lift up my soul.
Psalm 86:5 For you, O Lord, are good andabounding in steadfast love to all who call upon you.
Psalm 86:6  Give ear, O LORD, to my prayer; listen to my plea for grace.
Psalm 86:7 Infor you answer me.
Psalm 86:8 There isnor are there any works like yours.
Psalm 86:9  All the nations you have made shall come and worship before you, O Lord, and shall glorify your name.
Psalm 86:10 Foryou alone are God.
Psalm 86:11 unite my heart to fear your name.
Psalm 86:12 I give thanks to you, O Lord my God, with my whole heart, and I will glorify your name forever.
Psalm 86:13  delivered my soul from the depths of Sheol.
Psalm 86:14 O God, insolent men have risen up against me; a band of ruthless men seeks my life, and they do not set you before them.
Psalm 86:15 But you, O Lord, are a God merciful and gracious, slow to anger and abounding in steadfast love and faithfulness.
Psalm 86:16  the son of your maidservant.
Psalm 86:17  favor, that those who hate me may see and be put to shame because you, LORD, have helped me and comforted me.
Psalm 87:1  stands the city he founded;
Psalm 87:2 the LORD loves the gates of Zion more than all the dwelling places of Jacob.
Psalm 87:3  city of God. Selah
Psalm 87:4 Among those who  — “This one was born there,” they say.
Psalm 87:5 And of Zion it shall be said, “This one and that one were born in her”; for the Most High himself will establish her.
Psalm 87:6 The LORD records as he registers the peoples, “This one was born there.” Selah
Psalm 87:7  springs are in you.”
Psalm 88:1  cry out day and night before you.
Psalm 88:2 Let my prayer come before you; incline your ear to my cry!
Psalm 88:3 For my soul is full of troubles, and Sheol.
Psalm 88:4 I am counted among those who go down to the pit; I am a man who has no strength,
Psalm 88:5 like one set loose among the dead, like the slain that lie in the grave, like those whom cut off from your hand.
Psalm 88:6 You have put me in deep.
Psalm 88:7 Your wrath all your waves. Selah
Psalm 88:8 You have caused shut in so that I cannot escape;
Psalm 88:9  spread out my hands to you.
Psalm 88:10 Do you work wonders for the dead? Do the departed rise up to praise you? Selah
Psalm 88:11 Is your steadfast love declared in the grave, or your faithfulness in Abaddon?
Psalm 88:12 Are your forgetfulness?
Psalm 88:13 But I, O LORD, cryin the morning my prayer comes before you.
Psalm 88:14 O LORD, why do you hide your face from me?
Psalm 88:15 Afflicted and close to death from my youth up, I suffer your terrors; I am helpless.
Psalm 88:16 Your wrath has swept over me; your dreadful assaults destroy me.
Psalm 88:17 They close in on me together.
Psalm 88:18 You have caused
Psalm 89:1  faithfulness to all generations.
Psalm 89:2 For I said, faithfulness.”
Psalm 89:3 You have said, “I have made sworn to David my servant:
Psalm 89:4 ‘I will establish your throne for all generations.’” Selah
Psalm 89:5 Let the holy ones!
Psalm 89:6 For  is like the LORD,
Psalm 89:7 a God greatly who are around him?
Psalm 89:8 O LORD God of hosts,  LORD, with your faithfulness all around you?
Psalm 89:9 You rule the raging of the sea; when its waves rise, you still them.
Psalm 89:10 You scattered your enemies with your mighty arm.
Psalm 89:11  founded them.
Psalm 89:12  joyously praise your name.
Psalm 89:13 You have a mighty arm; strong is your hand, high your right hand.
Psalm 89:14 steadfast love and faithfulness go before you.
Psalm 89:15 Blessed are the people who know the light of your face,
Psalm 89:16 who exult in your exalted.
Psalm 89:17 For you are horn is exalted.
Psalm 89:18 For our the Holy One of Israel.
Psalm 89:19  chosen from the people.
Psalm 89:20  anointed him,
Psalm 89:21 so that my hand shall be established with him; my arm also shall strengthen him.
Psalm 89:22 The enemy shall not outwit him; the wicked shall not humble him.
Psalm 89:23 I will crush his foes before him and strike down those who hate him.
Psalm 89:24 My horn be exalted.
Psalm 89:25 I will set his hand on the rivers.
Psalm 89:26 He shall cry to me, ‘You are my the Rock of my salvation.’
Psalm 89:27 And I will make him thethe highest of the kings of the earth.
Psalm 89:28 My steadfast love I will keep for him forever, and my  for him.
Psalm 89:29 I will establish his the days of the heavens.
Psalm 89:30
Psalm 89:31 if they violate my statutes and do not keep my commandments,
Psalm 89:32 then I will punish their transgression with the rod and their iniquity with stripes,
Psalm 89:33 but I will not remove from him my steadfast love or be false to my faithfulness.
Psalm 89:34 I will not violate my covenant or alter the word that went forth from my lips.
Psalm 89:35 Once for all I have sworn lie to David.
Psalm 89:36 His the sun before me.
Psalm 89:37 Likea faithful witness in the skies.” Selah
Psalm 89:38 But now you have anointed.
Psalm 89:39 You have crown in the dust.
Psalm 89:40 You have breached all his walls; you have laid his strongholds in ruins.
Psalm 89:41  the scorn of his neighbors.
Psalm 89:42 You have exalted the right hand of his foes; you have made all his enemies rejoice.
Psalm 89:43 You have also turned back the edge of his sword, and you have not made him stand in battle.
Psalm 89:44 You have made his splendor to cease and cast his throne to the ground.
Psalm 89:45 You have cut short covered him with shame. Selah
Psalm 89:46  burn like fire?
Psalm 89:47  time is! For what vanity you have created all the children of man!
Psalm 89:48  Sheol? Selah
Psalm 89:49 Lord, where is your faithfulness you swore to David?
Psalm 89:50   of all the many nations,
Psalm 89:51 with which your enemies mock, O LORD, with which they mock anointed.
Psalm 89:52  Blessed be the LORD forever! Amen and Amen.
Psalm 90:1   in all generations.
Psalm 90:2 from everlasting to everlasting you are God.
Psalm 90:3 You return man to dust and say,
Psalm 90:4 For a watch in the night.
Psalm 90:5 You grass that is renewed in the morning:
Psalm 90:6 in withers.
Psalm 90:7 For we are brought to an end by your anger; by your wrath we are dismayed.
Psalm 90:8 You have secret sins in the light of your presence.
Psalm 90:9 For all our days pass away under your wrath; we bring our years to an end like a sigh.
Psalm 90:10 The years of our life are seventy, or even by reason of strength eighty; yet their span  is but toil and trouble; they are soon gone, and we fly away.
Psalm 90:11 Who considers the power of your anger, and your wrath according to the fear of you?
Psalm 90:12  So teach us to number our days that we may get a heart of wisdom.
Psalm 90:13  pity on your servants!
Psalm 90:14 Satisfy us in the rejoice and be glad all our days.
Psalm 90:15 Make us glad for as many days as you have afflicted us, and for as many years as we have seen evil.
Psalm 90:16 Let your work be shown to your servants, and your glorious power to their children.
Psalm 90:17 Let the the work of our hands upon us; yes, establish the work of our hands!
Psalm 91:1 He who dwells in the shadow of the Almighty.
Psalm 91:2 I will say trust.”
Psalm 91:3 For he will deliver you from the snare of the fowler and from the deadly pestilence.
Psalm 91:4 He will a shield and buckler.
Psalm 91:5  the terror of the night, nor the arrow that flies by day,
Psalm 91:6 nor the pestilence that stalks in darkness, nor the destruction that wastes at noonday.
Psalm 91:7 A thousand may fall at your side, ten thousand at your right hand, but it will not come near you.
Psalm 91:8 You will only look with your eyes and see the recompense of the wicked.
Psalm 91:9 Because you have made the LORD your  —
Psalm 91:10 no plague come near your tent.
Psalm 91:11  guard you in all your ways.
Psalm 91:12 On their hands they will bear you up, lest you strike your foot against a stone.
Psalm 91:13 You will tread on trample underfoot.
Psalm 91:14 “Because he knows my name.
Psalm 91:15 When he honor him.
Psalm 91:16 With show him my salvation.”
Psalm 92:1  O Most High;
Psalm 92:2 to declare your night,
Psalm 92:3 to the music of the lyre.
Psalm 92:4 For you, O LORD, have made me glad by your the works of your hands I sing for joy.
Psalm 92:5 How deep!
Psalm 92:6 The stupid man cannot know; the fool cannot understand this:
Psalm 92:7 that though evildoers flourish, they are doomed to destruction forever;
Psalm 92:8 but you, O LORD, are on high forever.
Psalm 92:9 For behold, your enemies, O LORD, for behold, your enemies shall perish; all evildoers shall be scattered.
Psalm 92:10 But you have exalted my  fresh oil.
Psalm 92:11 My eyes have seen the downfall of my enemies; my ears have heard the doom of my evil assailants.
Psalm 92:12  The righteous flourish like the palm tree and grow like a cedar in Lebanon.
Psalm 92:13 They are planted in the house of the LORD; they flourish in the courts of our God.
Psalm 92:14 They still bear fruit in old age; they are ever full of sap and green,
Psalm 92:15  no unrighteousness in him.
Psalm 93:1  it shall never be moved.
Psalm 93:2 you are from everlasting.
Psalm 93:3  The floods have lifted up, O LORD, the floods have lifted up their voice; the floods lift up their roaring.
Psalm 93:4 Mightier than the thunders of many waters, mightier than the waves of the sea,  on high is mighty!
Psalm 93:5 Yourholiness befits your house, O LORD, forevermore.
Psalm 94:1 O LORD, God of shine forth!
Psalm 94:2  proud what they deserve!
Psalm 94:3 O LORD, the wicked exult?
Psalm 94:4 They pour out their the evildoers boast.
Psalm 94:5 They crush your people, O LORD, and afflict your heritage.
Psalm 94:6 They kill the fatherless;
Psalm 94:7  and they say, “The LORD does not see; the God of Jacob does not perceive.”
Psalm 94:8  Understand, O dullest of the people! Fools, when will you be wise?
Psalm 94:9  He who planted the ear, does he not hear? He who formed the eye, does he not see?
Psalm 94:10 He who teaches man knowledge —
Psalm 94:11
Psalm 94:12  discipline, O LORD, and whom you teach out of your law,
Psalm 94:13 to give him a pit is dug for the wicked.
Psalm 94:14  heritage;
Psalm 94:15 for follow it.
Psalm 94:16  Who rises up for me against the wicked? Who stands up for me against evildoers?
Psalm 94:17  silence.
Psalm 94:18 When I thought, held me up.
Psalm 94:19 When the cares of my heart are many, your consolations cheer my soul.
Psalm 94:20 Can statute?
Psalm 94:21 They
Psalm 94:22 But the LORD has become my refuge.
Psalm 94:23 He will bring back on them wipe them out for their wickedness; the LORD our God will wipe them out.
Psalm 95:1 Oh come, let us sing to the LORD; let us the rock of our salvation!
Psalm 95:2 Let us make a joyful noise to him with songs of praise!
Psalm 95:3 For the LORD is above all gods.
Psalm 95:4 In his hand are the depths of the earth; the heights of the mountains are his also.
Psalm 95:5 The sea is his, for the dry land.
Psalm 95:6 Oh come, let us worship and bow down; let us Maker!
Psalm 95:7 For he is our hear his voice,
Psalm 95:8  Massah in the wilderness,
Psalm 95:9 when your fathers put me to the work.
Psalm 95:10  my ways.”
Psalm 95:11 Therefore I my rest.”
Psalm 96:1  a new song; sing to the LORD, all the earth!
Psalm 96:2 Sing to the LORD, bless his name; tell of his salvation from day to day.
Psalm 96:3 Declare his glory among the nations, his marvelous works among all the peoples!
Psalm 96:4 For all gods.
Psalm 96:5 For all the gods of the peoples are worthless idols, but the LORD made the heavens.
Psalm 96:6 Splendor and majesty are before him; strength and beauty are in his sanctuary.
Psalm 96:7 Ascribe to the LORD, Oascribe to the LORD glory and strength!
Psalm 96:8 Ascribe to the LORD come into his courts!
Psalm 96:9 Worship the LORD intremble before him, all the earth!
Psalm 96:10 Say among the nations, judge the peoples with equity.”
Psalm 96:11 Let the sea roar, and all that fills it;
Psalm 96:12 let the trees of the forest sing for joy
Psalm 96:13 before the LORD, for he comes, for he comes to judge the earth. He will judge the world in righteousness, and the peoples in his faithfulness.
Psalm 97:1  coastlands be glad!
Psalm 97:2 righteousness and justice are the foundation of his throne.
Psalm 97:3  Fire goes before him and burns up his adversaries all around.
Psalm 97:4 His trembles.
Psalm 97:5 The mountains the Lord of all the earth.
Psalm 97:6  the peoples see his glory.
Psalm 97:7 All worshipers of images areworship him, all you gods!
Psalm 97:8 Zion hears and is glad, and the daughters of Judah rejoice, because of your judgments, O LORD.
Psalm 97:9 For you, O LORD, are all gods.
Psalm 97:10 O you who love the LORD, delivers them from the hand of the wicked.
Psalm 97:11   for the righteous, and joy for the upright in heart.
Psalm 97:12  give thanks to his holy name!
Psalm 98:1 Oh sing to the LORD right hand and his holy arm have worked salvation for him.
Psalm 98:2 The LORD has the sight of the nations.
Psalm 98:3 He hasthe salvation of our God.
Psalm 98:4 break forth into joyous song and sing praises!
Psalm 98:5 Sing praises to the LORD with the lyre, with the lyre and the sound of melody!
Psalm 98:6 Withmake a joyful noise before the King, the LORD!
Psalm 98:7 the world and those who dwell in it!
Psalm 98:8 Let the rivers the hills sing for joy together
Psalm 98:9 before the LORD, for he comes to judge the earth. He will judge the world with righteousness, and the peoples with equity.
Psalm 99:1  let the earth quake!
Psalm 99:2 The LORD is exalted over all the peoples.
Psalm 99:3 Let them praise yourHoly is he!
Psalm 99:4   You have established equity; you have executed justice and righteousness in Jacob.
Psalm 99:5 Holy is he!
Psalm 99:6  called to the LORD, and he answered them.
Psalm 99:7 In kept his testimonies and the statute that he gave them.
Psalm 99:8 O LORD our God, you answered them; you were an avenger of their wrongdoings.
Psalm 99:9 Exalt the LORD our God, and worship at his holy mountain; for the LORD our God is holy!
Psalm 100:1   Make a joyful noise to the LORD, all the earth!
Psalm 100:2 Come into his presence with singing!
Psalm 100:3 Know that the sheep of his pasture.
Psalm 100:4  bless his name!
Psalm 100:5  faithfulness to all generations.
Psalm 101:1 I will sing of steadfast love and justice; to you, O LORD, I will make music.
Psalm 101:2 I will integrity of heart within my house;
Psalm 101:3 I will not set before my eyes anything fall away; it shall not cling to me.
Psalm 101:4  know nothing of evil.
Psalm 101:5 Whoever slanders his neighbor arrogant heart I will not endure.
Psalm 101:6 I will look with favor on the faithful in the land, that they may dwell with me; he who walks in the way that is blameless shall minister to me.
Psalm 101:7 No one who continue before my eyes.
Psalm 101:8  the city of the LORD.
Psalm 102:1  come to you!
Psalm 102:2  in the day when I call!
Psalm 102:3 For my days bones burn like a furnace.
Psalm 102:4 My heart is forget to eat my bread.
Psalm 102:5 Because of my loud groaning my bones cling to my flesh.
Psalm 102:6 I am like  of the waste places;
Psalm 102:7 I lie awake; I am like a lonely sparrow on the housetop.
Psalm 102:8 All the day my enemies taunt me; those who use my name for a curse.
Psalm 102:9 For I eat ashes like bread and mingle tears with my drink,
Psalm 102:10 because of your indignation and anger; for you have thrown me down.
Psalm 102:11 My days are like wither away like grass.
Psalm 102:12 But you, O LORD, are are remembered throughout all generations.
Psalm 102:13 You willthe appointed time has come.
Psalm 102:14 For your servants hold her stones dear and have pity on her dust.
Psalm 102:15 Nations will the kings of the earth will fear your glory.
Psalm 102:16 For the LORD appears in his glory;
Psalm 102:17 he regards the prayer of the destitute and does not despise their prayer.
Psalm 102:18 Let this be a people yet to be created may praise the LORD:
Psalm 102:19 that he looked down from his holy height; from heaven the LORD looked at the earth,
Psalm 102:20 to hear those who were doomed to die,
Psalm 102:21 that they may declare in Zion the name of the LORD, and in Jerusalem his praise,
Psalm 102:22 when peoples gather together, and kingdoms, to worship the LORD.
Psalm 102:23 He has broken my strength in midcourse; he has shortened my days.
Psalm 102:24 “O my God,”you whose years endure throughout all generations!”
Psalm 102:25  the heavens are the work of your hands.
Psalm 102:26  you will remain; they will all wear out like a garment. You will change them like a robe, and they will pass away,
Psalm 102:27 but you are the same, and your years have no end.
Psalm 102:28 their offspring shall be established before you.
Psalm 103:1  Bless the LORD, O my soul, and all that is within me, bless his holy name!
Psalm 103:2  forget not all his benefits,
Psalm 103:3 who heals all your diseases,
Psalm 103:4 who crowns you with steadfast love and mercy,
Psalm 103:5 who the eagle's.
Psalm 103:6 The LORD works righteousness and justice for all who are oppressed.
Psalm 103:7 He made known his acts to the people of Israel.
Psalm 103:8 The LORD is merciful and gracious, slow to anger and abounding in steadfast love.
Psalm 103:9  keep his anger forever.
Psalm 103:10 He does not deal with us according to our sins, nor repay us according to our iniquities.
Psalm 103:11 For those who fear him;
Psalm 103:12 as far as the east is from the west, so far does he remove our transgressions from us.
Psalm 103:13 As to those who fear him.
Psalm 103:14 For he knows our frame; remembers that we are dust.
Psalm 103:15 As for man, his days are like a flower of the field;
Psalm 103:16 for its place knows it no more.
Psalm 103:17 But children's children,
Psalm 103:18 to those who remember to do his commandments.
Psalm 103:19 The LORD has kingdom rules over all.
Psalm 103:20 Bless the LORD, O you do his word, obeying the voice of his word!
Psalm 103:21 Bless the LORD, all his ministers, who do his will!
Psalm 103:22 Bless the LORD, O my soul!
Psalm 104:1 You are clothed with splendor and majesty,
Psalm 104:2 covering yourself with light as with a garment,  like a tent.
Psalm 104:3 He the wings of the wind;
Psalm 104:4 he a flaming fire.
Psalm 104:5 He set the earth on its foundations, so that it should never be moved.
Psalm 104:6 You covered it with the deep as with a garment; the waters stood above the mountains.
Psalm 104:7 At took to flight.
Psalm 104:8 The mountains rose, the valleys sank down to the place that you appointed for them.
Psalm 104:9 You set might not again cover the earth.
Psalm 104:10 You make springs gush forth in the valleys; they flow between the hills;
Psalm 104:11 they give drink to every beast of the field; the wild donkeys quench their thirst.
Psalm 104:12 Beside them the birds of the heavens dwell; they sing among the branches.
Psalm 104:13  water the mountains; the earth is satisfied with the fruit of your work.
Psalm 104:14 You cause food from the earth
Psalm 104:15 and strengthen man's heart.
Psalm 104:16 The trees of the LORD are watered abundantly,  that he planted.
Psalm 104:17 In them the birds build their nests; the stork has her home in the fir trees.
Psalm 104:18 The high mountains are for the rock badgers.
Psalm 104:19 He made the moon to mark the  the sun knows its time for setting.
Psalm 104:20  You make darkness, and it is night, when all the beasts of the forest creep about.
Psalm 104:21  The young lions roar for their prey, seeking their food from God.
Psalm 104:22 When the sun rises, they steal away and lie down in their dens.
Psalm 104:23  Man goes out to his work and to his labor until the evening.
Psalm 104:24 O LORD, how manifold are your works! In wisdom have you made them all; the earth is full of your creatures.
Psalm 104:25 Here is the sea, great and wide, which teems with creatures innumerable, living things both small and great.
Psalm 104:26 There go the ships, and
Psalm 104:27 These give them their food in due season.
Psalm 104:28 When you give it to them, they gather it up; when you open your hand, they are filled with good things.
Psalm 104:29 When you return to their dust.
Psalm 104:30 When you renew the face of the ground.
Psalm 104:31 May the glory of the LORD rejoice in his works,
Psalm 104:32 who looks on the earth and it touches the mountains and they smoke!
Psalm 104:33 I will sing to the LORD as long as I live; I will sing praise to my God while I have being.
Psalm 104:34 May my meditation be pleasing to him, for I rejoice in the LORD.
Psalm 104:35 LetPraise the LORD!
Psalm 105:1 make known his deeds among the peoples!
Psalm 105:2 Sing to him, sing praises to him; tell of all his wondrous works!
Psalm 105:3 Glory in his holy name; let the hearts of those who seek the LORD rejoice!
Psalm 105:4 Seek the LORD and hisseek his presence continually!
Psalm 105:5 Remember the the judgments he uttered,
Psalm 105:6 O offspring of chosen ones!
Psalm 105:7 He is the LORD our God; his judgments are in all the earth.
Psalm 105:8 He a thousand generations,
Psalm 105:9  sworn promise to Isaac,
Psalm 105:10 which he confirmed to Jacob as a statute, to Israel as an everlasting covenant,
Psalm 105:11 saying, your portion for an inheritance.”
Psalm 105:12 When they were sojourners in it,
Psalm 105:13 wandering from nation to nation, from one kingdom to another people,
Psalm 105:14 he rebuked kings on their account,
Psalm 105:15 saying, “Touch not my anointed ones, do my prophets no harm!”
Psalm 105:16 When he  of bread,
Psalm 105:17 he had sold as a slave.
Psalm 105:18 His feet were hurt with fetters; his neck was put in a collar of iron;
Psalm 105:19 until tested him.
Psalm 105:20  released him; the ruler of the peoples set him free;
Psalm 105:21 he made him lord of his house and ruler of all his possessions,
Psalm 105:22 to bind  his princes at his pleasure and to teach his elders wisdom.
Psalm 105:23 Then the land of Ham.
Psalm 105:24 And the LORD made his people very fruitful and made them stronger than their foes.
Psalm 105:25 He deal craftily with his servants.
Psalm 105:26 He whom he had chosen.
Psalm 105:27  the land of Ham.
Psalm 105:28 He  against his words.
Psalm 105:29 He turned their waters into blood and caused their fish to die.
Psalm 105:30 Their land swarmed with frogs, even in the chambers of their kings.
Psalm 105:31 He spoke, and there cameand gnats throughout their country.
Psalm 105:32 He gave them hail for rain, and fiery lightning bolts through their land.
Psalm 105:33 He struck down their vines and fig trees, and shattered the trees of their country.
Psalm 105:34 He spoke, and the locusts came, young locusts without number,
Psalm 105:35 which devoured all the vegetation in their land and ate up the fruit of their ground.
Psalm 105:36 Hethe firstfruits of all their strength.
Psalm 105:37 Then he brought out Israel with silver and gold, and there was none among his tribes who stumbled.
Psalm 105:38  dread of them had fallen upon it.
Psalm 105:39 He spread a cloud for a covering, and fire to give light by night.
Psalm 105:40  bread from heaven in abundance.
Psalm 105:41 He opened the rock, and the desert like a river.
Psalm 105:42 For he Abraham, his servant.
Psalm 105:43 So he brought his people out with joy, his singing.
Psalm 105:44 And he gave them the lands of the nations, and they took possession of the fruit of the peoples' toil,
Psalm 105:45 that they mightPraise the LORD!
Psalm 106:1 for his steadfast love endures forever!
Psalm 106:2 Who can utter the mighty deeds of the LORD, or declare all his praise?
Psalm 106:3 Blessed are they who observe justice, who do righteousness at all times!
Psalm 106:4
Psalm 106:5 that I may look upon the prosperity of your chosen ones, that I may rejoice in the gladness of your nation, that I may glory with your inheritance.
Psalm 106:6  our fathers have sinned; we have committed iniquity; we have done wickedness.
Psalm 106:7 Our fathers, when they were in Egypt, did not consider your wondrous works; they rebelled by the sea, at the Red Sea.
Psalm 106:8 Yet he saved themthat he might make known his mighty power.
Psalm 106:9 He led them through the deep as through a desert.
Psalm 106:10 So he redeemed them from the power of the enemy.
Psalm 106:11 And the waters covered their adversaries; not one of them was left.
Psalm 106:12 Then sang his praise.
Psalm 106:13 But they soon his counsel.
Psalm 106:14 But they had put God to the test in the desert;
Psalm 106:15 he a wasting disease among them.
Psalm 106:16 When men in the camp the holy one of the LORD,
Psalm 106:17  the earth opened and swallowed up Dathan, and covered the company of Abiram.
Psalm 106:18  Fire also broke out in their company; the flame burned up the wicked.
Psalm 106:19 They made a calf in Horeb and worshiped a metal image.
Psalm 106:20 They  for the image of an ox that eats grass.
Psalm 106:21 They forgot God, their Savior, who had done great things in Egypt,
Psalm 106:22 wondrous works in the land of Ham, and awesome deeds by the Red Sea.
Psalm 106:23 Thereforestood in the breach before him, to turn away his wrath from destroying them.
Psalm 106:24 Then they no faith in his promise.
Psalm 106:25 They murmured in their tents, and did not obey the voice of the LORD.
Psalm 106:26 Therefore he raised his hand and swore to them that he would make them fall in the wilderness,
Psalm 106:27 and would make their offspring fall among the nations, scattering them among the lands.
Psalm 106:28 Then they the dead;
Psalm 106:29 they provoked the LORD to anger with their deeds, and a plague broke out among them.
Psalm 106:30 Then Phinehas stood up and intervened, and the plague was stayed.
Psalm 106:31 And that was counted to him as righteousness from generation to generation forever.
Psalm 106:32 They angered him at the waters of Meribah, and it went ill with Moses on their account,
Psalm 106:33 for they spoke rashly with his lips.
Psalm 106:34 They did notas the LORD commanded them,
Psalm 106:35 but they mixed with the nations and learned to do as they did.
Psalm 106:36 They served their idols, which became a snare to them.
Psalm 106:37 They the demons;
Psalm 106:38 they poured out innocent blood, the blood of their sons and daughters, whom they sacrificed to the idols of Canaan, and the land was polluted with blood.
Psalm 106:39 Thus they played the whore in their deeds.
Psalm 106:40 Then heritage;
Psalm 106:41 he gave them into the hand of the nations, so that those who hated them ruled over them.
Psalm 106:42 Their enemies oppressed them, and they were brought into subjection under their power.
Psalm 106:43  brought low through their iniquity.
Psalm 106:44 Nevertheless, he looked upon their distress, when he heard their cry.
Psalm 106:45 For their sake he the abundance of his steadfast love.
Psalm 106:46 He caused them to be pitied by all those who held them captive.
Psalm 106:47  gather us from among the nations, that we may give thanks to your holy name and glory in your praise.
Psalm 106:48 Praise the LORD!
Psalm 107:1  for he is good, for his steadfast love endures forever!
Psalm 107:2 Let
Psalm 107:3 and gathered in from the lands, from the east and from the west, from the north and from the south.
Psalm 107:4 Some to a city to dwell in;
Psalm 107:5 hungry and thirsty, their soul fainted within them.
Psalm 107:6 Then they cried to the LORD in their trouble, and he delivered them from their distress.
Psalm 107:7 He led them by a city to dwell in.
Psalm 107:8  Let them thank the LORD for his steadfast love, for his wondrous works to the children of man!
Psalm 107:9 For heand the hungry soul he fills with good things.
Psalm 107:10  affliction and in irons,
Psalm 107:11 for they spurned the counsel of the Most High.
Psalm 107:12 So he bowed their hearts down with hard labor; they fell down, with none to help.
Psalm 107:13  Then they cried to the LORD in their trouble, and he delivered them from their distress.
Psalm 107:14 He brought them out of burst their bonds apart.
Psalm 107:15  Let them thank the LORD for his steadfast love, for his wondrous works to the children of man!
Psalm 107:16 For he shatters the doors of bronze and cuts in two the bars of iron.
Psalm 107:17 Some were fools through their sinful ways, and because of their iniquities suffered affliction;
Psalm 107:18  the gates of death.
Psalm 107:19  Then they cried to the LORD in their trouble, and he delivered them from their distress.
Psalm 107:20 He delivered them from their destruction.
Psalm 107:21  Let them thank the LORD for his steadfast love, for his wondrous works to the children of man!
Psalm 107:22 And let them songs of joy!
Psalm 107:23 Some went down to the sea in ships, doing business on the great waters;
Psalm 107:24 they saw the deeds of the LORD, his wondrous works in the deep.
Psalm 107:25 For he raised the stormy wind, which lifted up the waves of the sea.
Psalm 107:26 They mounted up to heaven; they went down to the depths; their courage melted away in their evil plight;
Psalm 107:27 they reeled and
Psalm 107:28  Then they cried to the LORD in their trouble, and he delivered them from their distress.
Psalm 107:29 He made the storm be still, and the waves of the sea were hushed.
Psalm 107:30 Then they were glad that the waters  were quiet, and he brought them to their desired haven.
Psalm 107:31  Let them thank the LORD for his steadfast love, for his wondrous works to the children of man!
Psalm 107:32 Let them the congregation of the people, and praise him in the assembly of the elders.
Psalm 107:33 He turns rivers into a desert, springs of water into thirsty ground,
Psalm 107:34  a fruitful land into a salty waste, because of the evil of its inhabitants.
Psalm 107:35 Hea parched land into springs of water.
Psalm 107:36 And there he lets the hungry dwell, and they establish a city to live in;
Psalm 107:37 they sow fields and plant vineyards and get a fruitful yield.
Psalm 107:38  By his blessing they multiply greatly, and he does not let their livestock diminish.
Psalm 107:39 When they are diminished and brought low through oppression, evil, and sorrow,
Psalm 107:40  in trackless wastes;
Psalm 107:41 but makes their families like flocks.
Psalm 107:42  all wickedness shuts its mouth.
Psalm 107:43  Whoever is wise, let him attend to these things; let them consider the steadfast love of the LORD.
Psalm 108:1
Psalm 108:2 Awake, O harp and lyre! I will awake the dawn!
Psalm 108:3 I will give thanks to you, O LORD, among the peoples; I will sing praises to you among the nations.
Psalm 108:4 For your steadfast love is great above the heavens; your faithfulness reaches to the clouds.
Psalm 108:5 Be exalted, O God, above the heavens! Let your glory be over all the earth!
Psalm 108:6  That your beloved ones may be delivered, give salvation by your right hand and answer me!
Psalm 108:7 God has promised in his holiness:  “With exultation I will divide up Shechem and portion out the Valley of Succoth.
Psalm 108:8 Gilead is mine; Manasseh is mine; Ephraim is my helmet, Judah my scepter.
Psalm 108:9 Moab is my washbasin; upon Edom I cast my shoe; over Philistia I shout in triumph.”
Psalm 108:10 Who will bring me to the fortified city? Who will lead me to Edom?
Psalm 108:11 Have you not rejected us, O God? You do not go out, O God, with our armies.
Psalm 108:12 Oh grant us help against the foe, for vain is the salvation of man!
Psalm 108:13 With God we shall do valiantly; it is he who will tread down our foes.
Psalm 109:1  God of my praise!
Psalm 109:2 For wicked and deceitful mouths are opened against me, speaking against me with lying tongues.
Psalm 109:3 They encircle me with words of hate, and attack me without cause.
Psalm 109:4 In return for my love they
Psalm 109:5 So they reward me evil for good, and hatred for my love.
Psalm 109:6  at his right hand.
Psalm 109:7 When he is tried, let him come forth guilty; let his prayer be counted as sin!
Psalm 109:8 May his office!
Psalm 109:9 May his children be fatherless and his wife a widow!
Psalm 109:10 May his childrenseeking food far from the ruins they inhabit!
Psalm 109:11 May strangers plunder the fruits of his toil!
Psalm 109:12 Let there be none to pity his fatherless children!
Psalm 109:13 May his name be blotted out in the second generation!
Psalm 109:14 May blotted out!
Psalm 109:15  cut off the memory of them from the earth!
Psalm 109:16 For he did not remember to show kindness, but pursued the brokenhearted, to put them to death.
Psalm 109:17   from him!
Psalm 109:18 He  into his body like water, like oil into his bones!
Psalm 109:19 May it be like a garment that he wraps around him, like a belt that he puts on every day!
Psalm 109:20 May this be the reward of my accusers from the LORD, of those who speak evil against my life!
Psalm 109:21 But you, O GOD my Lord, deal on my behalf steadfast love is good, deliver me!
Psalm 109:22 For I am poor and needy, and my heart is stricken within me.
Psalm 109:23 I am gone like shaken off like a locust.
Psalm 109:24 My knees are weak body has become gaunt, with no fat.
Psalm 109:25 I am wag their heads.
Psalm 109:26  Help me, O LORD my God! Save me according to your steadfast love!
Psalm 109:27 Let them know that this is your hand; you, O LORD, have done it!
Psalm 109:28  your servant will be glad!
Psalm 109:29 May my accusers be be wrapped in their own shame as in a cloak!
Psalm 109:30 With my mouth I will give great thanks to the LORD; I will praise him in the midst of the throng.
Psalm 109:31 For he stands at the right hand of the needy one, to save him from those who condemn his soul to death.
Psalm 110:1  footstool.”
Psalm 110:2 The LORD sends forthRule in the midst of your enemies!
Psalm 110:3
Psalm 110:4  Melchizedek.”
Psalm 110:5 The Lord is at your the day of his wrath.
Psalm 110:6 He will  over the wide earth.
Psalm 110:7 He will drink from the brook by the way; therefore he will lift up his head.
Psalm 111:1  the upright, in the congregation.
Psalm 111:2 Great are thestudied by all who delight in them.
Psalm 111:3  righteousness endures forever.
Psalm 111:4 He has caused his wondrous works to be remembered; the LORD is gracious and merciful.
Psalm 111:5 He provides food for those who fear him; he remembers his covenant forever.
Psalm 111:6 He has shown his people the power of his works, in giving them the inheritance of the nations.
Psalm 111:7 The works of his hands are faithful and just; all his precepts are trustworthy;
Psalm 111:8 they are faithfulness and uprightness.
Psalm 111:9 He sentHoly and awesome is his name!
Psalm 111:10  praise endures forever!
Psalm 112:1  greatly delights in his commandments!
Psalm 112:2 Histhe generation of the upright will be blessed.
Psalm 112:3  righteousness endures forever.
Psalm 112:4 Light dawns in the darkness righteous.
Psalm 112:5 It is well with the man who deals generously and lends; who conducts his affairs with justice.
Psalm 112:6 For the righteous willhe will be remembered forever.
Psalm 112:7 He is not trusting in the LORD.
Psalm 112:8 His heart is steady;  he will not be afraid, until he looks in triumph on his adversaries.
Psalm 112:9 He has horn is exalted in honor.
Psalm 112:10 The wicked man sees it and is angry; hethe desire of the wicked will perish!
Psalm 113:1  servants of the LORD, praise the name of the LORD!
Psalm 113:2  Blessed be the name of the LORD from this time forth and forevermore!
Psalm 113:3  to be praised!
Psalm 113:4 The LORD is glory above the heavens!
Psalm 113:5  Who is like the LORD our God, who is seated on high,
Psalm 113:6 who looks far down on the heavens and the earth?
Psalm 113:7 He raises the poor from the dust and lifts the needy from the ash heap,
Psalm 113:8 to make them sit with princes, with the princes of his people.
Psalm 113:9 HePraise the LORD!
Psalm 114:1 When a people of strange language,
Psalm 114:2 Judah became his sanctuary, Israel his dominion.
Psalm 114:3 Jordan turned back.
Psalm 114:4  The mountains skipped like rams, the hills like lambs.
Psalm 114:5 What ails you, O sea, that you flee? O Jordan, that you turn back?
Psalm 114:6 O mountains, that you skip like rams? O hills, like lambs?
Psalm 114:7  Tremble, O earth, at the presence of the Lord, at the presence of the God of Jacob,
Psalm 114:8 who turnsthe flint into a spring of water.
Psalm 115:1 for the sake of your steadfast love and your faithfulness!
Psalm 115:2 Why should the nations say, “Where is their God?”
Psalm 115:3 he does all that he pleases.
Psalm 115:4 the work of human hands.
Psalm 115:5 They have mouths, but do not speak; eyes, but do not see.
Psalm 115:6 They have ears, but do not hear; noses, but do not smell.
Psalm 115:7 They have hands, but do not feel; feet, but do not walk; and they do not make a sound in their throat.
Psalm 115:8  Those who make them become like them; so do all who trust in them.
Psalm 115:9 O help and their shield.
Psalm 115:10 O their shield.
Psalm 115:11 You who fear the LORD, trust in the LORD! He is their help and their shield.
Psalm 115:12 The LORD has remembered us; he will bless us; he will bless the house of Aaron;
Psalm 115:13 he willboth the small and the great.
Psalm 115:14 May the LORD give you increase, you and your children!
Psalm 115:15 Maywho made heaven and earth!
Psalm 115:16 The heavens are the LORD's heavens, but the earth he has given to the children of man.
Psalm 115:17  silence.
Psalm 115:18 ButPraise the LORD!
Psalm 116:1 I heard my voice and my pleas for mercy.
Psalm 116:2 Because he inclined his ear to me, therefore I will call on him as long as I live.
Psalm 116:3  The snares of death encompassed me; the pangs of Sheol laid hold on me; I suffered distress and anguish.
Psalm 116:4 Then I called on the name of the LORD: “O LORD, I pray, deliver my soul!”
Psalm 116:5  merciful.
Psalm 116:6 The LORD preserves I was brought low, he saved me.
Psalm 116:7 Return, O my soul, to your dealt bountifully with you.
Psalm 116:8 For you have delivered my soul from death, my eyes from tears, my feet from stumbling;
Psalm 116:9 I will walk before the LORD in the land of the living.
Psalm 116:10   I spoke: “I am greatly afflicted”;
Psalm 116:11 “All mankind are liars.”
Psalm 116:12 What shall I render to the LORD for all his benefits to me?
Psalm 116:13 I will lift up call on the name of the LORD,
Psalm 116:14 I will pay my vows to the LORD in the presence of all his people.
Psalm 116:15  saints.
Psalm 116:16 O LORD, I am your loosed my bonds.
Psalm 116:17 I will call on the name of the LORD.
Psalm 116:18 I will pay my vows to the LORD in the presence of all his people,
Psalm 116:19 inPraise the LORD!
Psalm 117:1  Praise the LORD, all nations! Extol him, all peoples!
Psalm 117:2 ForPraise the LORD!
Psalm 118:1  Oh give thanks to the LORD, for he is good; for his steadfast love endures forever!
Psalm 118:2  Let Israel say, “His steadfast love endures forever.”
Psalm 118:3  Let the house of Aaron say, “His steadfast love endures forever.”
Psalm 118:4  Let those who fear the LORD say, “His steadfast love endures forever.”
Psalm 118:5  free.
Psalm 118:6  I will not fear. What can man do to me?
Psalm 118:7  look in triumph on those who hate me.
Psalm 118:8 than to trust in man.
Psalm 118:9 It is better to take refuge in the LORD than to trust in princes.
Psalm 118:10  All nations surrounded me; in the name of the LORD I cut them off!
Psalm 118:11 They surrounded me, surrounded me on every side; in the name of the LORD I cut them off!
Psalm 118:12  a fire among thorns; in the name of the LORD I cut them off!
Psalm 118:13 I was  so that I was falling, but the LORD helped me.
Psalm 118:14 The LORD is my strength and my song; he has become my salvation.
Psalm 118:15 Glad songs of salvation are in the tents of the righteous:  does valiantly,
Psalm 118:16 the right hand of the LORD exalts, the right hand of the LORD does valiantly!”
Psalm 118:17  recount the deeds of the LORD.
Psalm 118:18 The LORD has disciplined me severely, but he has not given me over to death.
Psalm 118:19  Open to me the gates of righteousness, that I may enter through them and give thanks to the LORD.
Psalm 118:20 This is the gate of the LORD; the righteous shall enter through it.
Psalm 118:21 I thank you thatand have become my salvation.
Psalm 118:22
Psalm 118:23 This is the LORD's doing; it is marvelous in our eyes.
Psalm 118:24 This is the day that the LORD has made; let us rejoice and be glad in it.
Psalm 118:25 Save us, we pray, O LORD! O LORD, we pray, give us success!
Psalm 118:26  bless you from the house of the LORD.
Psalm 118:27 The LORD is God, and he has made the horns of the altar!
Psalm 118:28 You are my God, and I will give thanks to you; you are my God; I will extol you.
Psalm 118:29  Oh give thanks to the LORD, for he is good; for his steadfast love endures forever!
Psalm 119:1  walk in the law of the LORD!
Psalm 119:2 Blessed are those who seek him with their whole heart,
Psalm 119:3 who also do no wrong, but walk in his ways!
Psalm 119:4 You have commanded your precepts to be kept diligently.
Psalm 119:5 Oh that my ways may be steadfast in keeping your statutes!
Psalm 119:6  Then I shall not be put to shame, having my eyes fixed on all your commandments.
Psalm 119:7 I will praise you with an upright heart, when I learn
Psalm 119:8 I will keep your statutes; do not utterly forsake me!
Psalm 119:9 How can a young man keep his way pure? By guarding it according to your word.
Psalm 119:10  wander from your commandments!
Psalm 119:11 I have stored up your word in my heart, that I might not sin against you.
Psalm 119:12 Blessed are you, O LORD; teach me your statutes!
Psalm 119:13 With my lips I  of your mouth.
Psalm 119:14 In the way of your testimonies I riches.
Psalm 119:15 I will ways.
Psalm 119:16 I will delight in your statutes; I will not forget your word.
Psalm 119:17 that I may live and keep your word.
Psalm 119:18 Open my eyes, that I may behold wondrous things out of your law.
Psalm 119:19 I amhide not your commandments from me!
Psalm 119:20 My soul is consumed with  at all times.
Psalm 119:21 You rebuke wander from your commandments.
Psalm 119:22 Take away from mefor I have kept your testimonies.
Psalm 119:23 Even though meditate on your statutes.
Psalm 119:24 Your testimonies are my counselors.
Psalm 119:25  according to your word!
Psalm 119:26 Whenteach me your statutes!
Psalm 119:27  meditate on your wondrous works.
Psalm 119:28  My soul melts away for sorrow; strengthen me according to your word!
Psalm 119:29 Put false ways far from me and graciously teach me your law!
Psalm 119:30 I have chosen the way of faithfulness; I set your rules before me.
Psalm 119:31 I cling to your testimonies, O LORD; let me not be put to shame!
Psalm 119:32 I will run in the way of your commandments when you
Psalm 119:33
Psalm 119:34  Give me understanding, that I may keep your law and observe it with my whole heart.
Psalm 119:35  delight in it.
Psalm 119:36  selfish gain!
Psalm 119:37  give me life in your ways.
Psalm 119:38 that you may be feared.
Psalm 119:39 Turn away the reproach that I dread, for your rules are good.
Psalm 119:40 Behold, Iin your righteousness give me life!
Psalm 119:41 Let your according to your promise;
Psalm 119:42 then who taunts me, for I trust in your word.
Psalm 119:43 And take not the word of truth utterly out of my mouth, for my hope is in your rules.
Psalm 119:44 I will keep your law continually, forever and ever,
Psalm 119:45 and I shall walk sought your precepts.
Psalm 119:46 I will also speak of your testimonies before kings and shall not be put to shame,
Psalm 119:47 for I find my delight in your commandments, which I love.
Psalm 119:48 I will meditate on your statutes.
Psalm 119:49 Remember hope.
Psalm 119:50 This is gives me life.
Psalm 119:51  turn away from your law.
Psalm 119:52 When I think of your rules from of old, I take comfort, O LORD.
Psalm 119:53  Hot indignation seizes me because of the wicked, who forsake your law.
Psalm 119:54 Your statutes have been my songs in the house of my sojourning.
Psalm 119:55 I remember your name in the night, O LORD, and keep your law.
Psalm 119:56 This blessing has fallen to me, that I have kept your precepts.
Psalm 119:57  The LORD is my portion; I promise to keep your words.
Psalm 119:58 I according to your promise.
Psalm 119:59 When I think on my ways, I turn my feet to your testimonies;
Psalm 119:60 I hasten and do not delay to keep your commandments.
Psalm 119:61 Though forget your law.
Psalm 119:62 At righteous rules.
Psalm 119:63  I am a companion of all who fear you, of those who keep your precepts.
Psalm 119:64 teach me your statutes!
Psalm 119:65 You have dealt well with your servant, O LORD, according to your word.
Psalm 119:66 Teach me good judgment and knowledge, for I believe in your commandments.
Psalm 119:67  Before I was afflicted I went astray, but now I keep your word.
Psalm 119:68 teach me your statutes.
Psalm 119:69  keep your precepts;
Psalm 119:70 their heart is unfeeling delight in your law.
Psalm 119:71 It is good for me that I was afflicted, that I might learn your statutes.
Psalm 119:72  The law of your mouth is better to me than thousands of gold and silver pieces.
Psalm 119:73 give me understanding that I may learn your commandments.
Psalm 119:74 Those who fear you shall see me and hoped in your word.
Psalm 119:75 I know, O LORD, that your rules are faithfulness you have afflicted me.
Psalm 119:76 Let your steadfast love comfort me according to your promise to your servant.
Psalm 119:77 Let your delight.
Psalm 119:78 Let meditate on your precepts.
Psalm 119:79 Let those who fear you turn to me, that they may know your testimonies.
Psalm 119:80 May my heart bethat I may not be put to shame!
Psalm 119:81 My soul hope in your word.
Psalm 119:82 My “When will you comfort me?”
Psalm 119:83 For I have wineskin in the smoke, yet I have not forgotten your statutes.
Psalm 119:84 When will you judge those who persecute me?
Psalm 119:85  dug pitfalls for me; they do not live according to your law.
Psalm 119:86 All your commandments are help me!
Psalm 119:87 They have almost made an end of me on earth, but I have not forsaken your precepts.
Psalm 119:88 In your steadfast love give me life, that I may keep the testimonies of your mouth.
Psalm 119:89 Forever, O LORD, your word is firmly fixed in the heavens.
Psalm 119:90 Your stands fast.
Psalm 119:91 By your appointment they stand this day, for all things are your servants.
Psalm 119:92 If your law had not been my delight, I would have perished in my affliction.
Psalm 119:93 I will never forget your precepts, for by them you have given me life.
Psalm 119:94 I am yours; save me, for I have sought your precepts.
Psalm 119:95 The wicked lie in wait to destroy me, but I consider your testimonies.
Psalm 119:96 I have seen a limit to all perfection, but your commandment is exceedingly broad.
Psalm 119:97 Oh how meditation all the day.
Psalm 119:98 Your commandment makes me wiser than my enemies, for it is ever with me.
Psalm 119:99 I have more understanding than all my teachers, for your testimonies are my meditation.
Psalm 119:100 I understand more than keep your precepts.
Psalm 119:101 I hold back my feet from every evil way, in order to keep your word.
Psalm 119:102 I do not turn aside from your rules, for you have taught me.
Psalm 119:103 How sweet are your words to my taste, sweeter than honey to my mouth!
Psalm 119:104 Through your precepts I get understanding; therefore I hate every false way.
Psalm 119:105  Your word is a lamp to my feet and a light to my path.
Psalm 119:106 I have righteous rules.
Psalm 119:107 I am severelygive me life, O LORD, according to your word!
Psalm 119:108 Accept teach me your rules.
Psalm 119:109 I hold my life forget your law.
Psalm 119:110 The wicked have laid I do not stray from your precepts.
Psalm 119:111 Your testimonies are the joy of my heart.
Psalm 119:112 I
Psalm 119:113 I hate your law.
Psalm 119:114 You are my hope in your word.
Psalm 119:115  keep the commandments of my God.
Psalm 119:116 Uphold me hope!
Psalm 119:117  Hold me up, that I may be safe and have regard for your statutes continually!
Psalm 119:118 You go astray from your statutes, for their cunning is in vain.
Psalm 119:119 All the wicked of the earth you discard like I love your testimonies.
Psalm 119:120 My flesh trembles for fear of you, and I am afraid of your judgments.
Psalm 119:121 I have done what is just and right; do not leave me to my oppressors.
Psalm 119:122 Give your servant the insolent oppress me.
Psalm 119:123 My eyes long for your salvation and for the fulfillment of your righteous promise.
Psalm 119:124 Deal with your servant according to your steadfast love, and teach me your statutes.
Psalm 119:125 I am your give me understanding, that I may know your testimonies!
Psalm 119:126 It is time for the LORD to act, for your law has been broken.
Psalm 119:127 Therefore I love your commandments above gold, above fine gold.
Psalm 119:128 Therefore I consider all your precepts to be right; I hate every false way.
Psalm 119:129 Your testimonies are keeps them.
Psalm 119:130 The unfolding of your words gives light; it imparts understanding to the simple.
Psalm 119:131 I long for your commandments.
Psalm 119:132  Turn to me and be gracious to me, as is your way with those who love your name.
Psalm 119:133  get dominion over me.
Psalm 119:134  Redeem me from man's oppression, that I may keep your precepts.
Psalm 119:135  teach me your statutes.
Psalm 119:136 My eyes do not keep your law.
Psalm 119:137  Righteous are you, O LORD, and right are your rules.
Psalm 119:138 You have appointed your testimonies in faithfulness.
Psalm 119:139 My zeal consumes me, because my foes forget your words.
Psalm 119:140 Your promise is well loves it.
Psalm 119:141 I am small and despised, yet I do not forget your precepts.
Psalm 119:142 Your righteousness is righteous forever, and your law is true.
Psalm 119:143 Trouble and anguish have found me out, but your commandments are my delight.
Psalm 119:144 Your testimonies are righteous forever;  live.
Psalm 119:145 With my keep your statutes.
Psalm 119:146 I call to you; save me, that I may observe your testimonies.
Psalm 119:147 I rise before hope in your words.
Psalm 119:148 My eyes are awake before the watches of the night, that I may meditate on your promise.
Psalm 119:149 Hear my voice according to your steadfast love; O LORD, give me life.
Psalm 119:150 They draw near who persecute me with evil purpose; they are far from your law.
Psalm 119:151 But true.
Psalm 119:152 Long have I known from your testimonies that you have founded them forever.
Psalm 119:153 Look on my I do not forget your law.
Psalm 119:154 give me life according to your promise!
Psalm 119:155 for they do not seek your statutes.
Psalm 119:156 give me life according to your rules.
Psalm 119:157  swerve from your testimonies.
Psalm 119:158 I look at disgust, because they do not keep your commands.
Psalm 119:159 Consider how IGive me life according to your steadfast love.
Psalm 119:160  righteous rules endures forever.
Psalm 119:161  stands in awe of your words.
Psalm 119:162 I finds great spoil.
Psalm 119:163 I hate and abhor falsehood, but I love your law.
Psalm 119:164 Seven times a day I praise you for your righteous rules.
Psalm 119:165 Greatnothing can make them stumble.
Psalm 119:166 I hope for your salvation, O LORD, and I do your commandments.
Psalm 119:167 My soul keeps your testimonies; I love them exceedingly.
Psalm 119:168 I keep your precepts and testimonies, for all my ways are before you.
Psalm 119:169 Let my according to your word!
Psalm 119:170 Let my plea come before you; deliver me according to your word.
Psalm 119:171 My lips will teach me your statutes.
Psalm 119:172 My tongue will sing of your word, for all your commandments are right.
Psalm 119:173 Let your hand be ready to help me, for I have chosen your precepts.
Psalm 119:174 I delight.
Psalm 119:175 Let my soul live and praise you, and let your rules help me.
Psalm 119:176 I have forget your commandments.
Psalm 120:1  In my distress I called to the LORD, and he answered me.
Psalm 120:2 Deliver me, O LORD, from lying lips, from a deceitful tongue.
Psalm 120:3 What shall be given to you, and what more shall be done to you, you deceitful tongue?
Psalm 120:4  coals of the broom tree!
Psalm 120:5 Woe to me, that I sojourn in Kedar!
Psalm 120:6 Too long have I had my dwelling among those who hate peace.
Psalm 120:7  I am for peace, but when I speak, they are for war!
Psalm 121:1  the hills. From where does my help come?
Psalm 121:2  made heaven and earth.
Psalm 121:3 He will not keeps you will not slumber.
Psalm 121:4 Behold, he who keeps Israel will neither slumber nor sleep.
Psalm 121:5 The LORD is your keeper; the LORD is your right hand.
Psalm 121:6  strike you by day, nor the moon by night.
Psalm 121:7 The LORD will keep your life.
Psalm 121:8 The LORD will keep your going out and your coming in from this time forth and forevermore.
Psalm 122:1 “Let us go to the house of the LORD!”
Psalm 122:2 Our feet have been standing within your gates, O Jerusalem!
Psalm 122:3 Jerusalem — bound firmly together,
Psalm 122:4 to which the tribes  Israel, to give thanks to the name of the LORD.
Psalm 122:5 There thrones for judgment were set, the thrones of the house of David.
Psalm 122:6  Pray for the peace of Jerusalem! “May they be secure who love you!
Psalm 122:7 Peace be within your towers!”
Psalm 122:8 For my brothers and companions' sake I will say, “Peace be within you!”
Psalm 122:9 For the sake of the house of the LORD our God, I will seek your good.
Psalm 123:1  enthroned in the heavens!
Psalm 123:2 Behold, as the eyes of servants look to the hand of their master, as the eyes of a maidservant to the hand of her mistress, so our eyes look to the LORD our God, till he has mercy upon us.
Psalm 123:3  contempt.
Psalm 123:4 Our soul has had more than enough of the proud.
Psalm 124:1 let Israel now say —
Psalm 124:2 if it had not been the LORD who was on our side when people rose up against us,
Psalm 124:3 then they would have swallowed us up alive, when their anger was kindled against us;
Psalm 124:4 then over us;
Psalm 124:5 then over us would have gone the raging waters.
Psalm 124:6 Blessed be the LORD, who has not given us as prey to their teeth!
Psalm 124:7 We have escaped like a bird from the snare of the fowlers; the snare is broken, and we have escaped!
Psalm 124:8  Our help is in the name of the LORD, who made heaven and earth.
Psalm 125:1  cannot be moved, but abides forever.
Psalm 125:2 As the mountains surround Jerusalem, so the LORD surrounds his people, from this time forth and forevermore.
Psalm 125:3 For stretch out their hands to do wrong.
Psalm 125:4  upright in their hearts!
Psalm 125:5 But those whoPeace be upon Israel!
Psalm 126:1  dream.
Psalm 126:2 Then our“The LORD has done great things for them.”
Psalm 126:3 The LORD has done great things for us; we are glad.
Psalm 126:4 Restore our fortunes, O LORD, like streams in the Negeb!
Psalm 126:5  Those who sow in tears shall reap with shouts of joy!
Psalm 126:6 He who goes out weeping, bearing the seed for sowing, shall come home with shouts of joy, bringing his sheaves with him.
Psalm 127:1  watches over the city, the watchman stays awake in vain.
Psalm 127:2 It is in vain that you rise up early and go late to rest, eating the bread of anxious sleep.
Psalm 127:3 Behold,the fruit of the womb a reward.
Psalm 127:4 Like arrows in the hand of  of one's youth.
Psalm 127:5 Blessed is the man who fills his quiver with them! He shall not be put to shame when he speaks with his enemies
Psalm 128:1  walks in his ways!
Psalm 128:2 You shall eat the fruit of the labor of your hands; you shall be blessed, and it shall be well with you.
Psalm 128:3 Your wife will be like olive shoots around your table.
Psalm 128:4 Behold, thus shall the man be blessed who fears the LORD.
Psalm 128:5  the prosperity of Jerusalem all the days of your life!
Psalm 128:6 May you see yourPeace be upon Israel!
Psalm 129:1 let Israel now say —
Psalm 129:2 “Greatly have theyyet they have not prevailed against me.
Psalm 129:3  upon my back; they made long their furrows.”
Psalm 129:4 The LORD is righteous; he has cut the cords of the wicked.
Psalm 129:5 May all who hate Zion be put to shame and turned backward!
Psalm 129:6 Let them be like withers before it grows up,
Psalm 129:7 with which the reaper does not fill his hand nor the binder of sheaves his arms,
Psalm 129:8 nor do those who pass by say,  bless you in the name of the LORD!”
Psalm 130:1  the depths I cry to you, O LORD!
Psalm 130:2 O Lord, hear my voice!  the voice of my pleas for mercy!
Psalm 130:3 If you, O LORD, should stand?
Psalm 130:4 But with you there isthat you may be feared.
Psalm 130:5 I in his word I hope;
Psalm 130:6 my soul the morning, more than watchmen for the morning.
Psalm 130:7 O Israel, with the LORD there is steadfast love, and with him is plentiful redemption.
Psalm 130:8 And he will redeem Israel from all his iniquities.
Psalm 131:1  too marvelous for me.
Psalm 131:2 But I have calmed and quieted my soul, like a weaned child with its mother; like a weaned child is my soul within me.
Psalm 131:3  O Israel, hope in the LORD from this time forth and forevermore.
Psalm 132:1  the hardships he endured,
Psalm 132:2 how he swore to the LORD and the Mighty One of Jacob,
Psalm 132:3 “I will not enter my house or get into my bed,
Psalm 132:4 I will not give sleep to my eyes or slumber to my eyelids,
Psalm 132:5 until I the Mighty One of Jacob.”
Psalm 132:6 Behold, we heard of it in the fields of Jaar.
Psalm 132:7 “Let us go to his dwelling place; let us footstool!”
Psalm 132:8  might.
Psalm 132:9 Let your saints shout for joy.
Psalm 132:10 For the sake of your servant David,  your anointed one.
Psalm 132:11   I will set on your throne.
Psalm 132:12 If your sons keep my covenant and my testimonies that I shall teach them, their sons also forever shall sit on your throne.”
Psalm 132:13 For the LORD has desired it for his dwelling place:
Psalm 132:14 “This is my dwell, for I have desired it.
Psalm 132:15 I will abundantly satisfy her poor with bread.
Psalm 132:16 Her saints will shout for joy.
Psalm 132:17 There I will make my anointed.
Psalm 132:18 His enemies I will clothe with shame, but on him his crown will shine.”
Psalm 133:1
Psalm 133:2 It is like the precious the collar of his robes!
Psalm 133:3 It is like has commanded the blessing, life forevermore.
Psalm 134:1  by night in the house of the LORD!
Psalm 134:2  the holy place and bless the LORD!
Psalm 134:3 May the LORD made heaven and earth!
Psalm 135:1  servants of the LORD,
Psalm 135:2 who the courts of the house of our God!
Psalm 135:3 Praise the LORD, for
Psalm 135:4 For the LORD has own possession.
Psalm 135:5 For I know that the LORD is great, and that our Lord is above all gods.
Psalm 135:6  Whatever the LORD pleases, he does, in heaven and on earth, in the seas and all deeps.
Psalm 135:7  storehouses.
Psalm 135:8 He it was who struck down the firstborn of Egypt, both of man and of beast;
Psalm 135:9 who in your midst, O Egypt, sent signs and wonders against Pharaoh and all his servants;
Psalm 135:10  who struck down many nations and killed mighty kings,
Psalm 135:11  all the kingdoms of Canaan,
Psalm 135:12 and gave their land as a heritage, a heritage to his people Israel.
Psalm 135:13   O LORD, throughout all ages.
Psalm 135:14  have compassion on his servants.
Psalm 135:15  The idols of the nations are silver and gold, the work of human hands.
Psalm 135:16 They have mouths, but do not speak; they have eyes, but do not see;
Psalm 135:17 they have ears, but do not hear, nor is there any breath in their mouths.
Psalm 135:18 Those who make them become like them, so do all who trust in them.
Psalm 135:19  O house of Israel, bless the LORD! O house of Aaron, bless the LORD!
Psalm 135:20 O house of Levi, bless the LORD! You who fear the LORD, bless the LORD!
Psalm 135:21 Blessed be the LORDPraise the LORD!
Psalm 136:1 for his steadfast love endures forever.
Psalm 136:2 Give thanks to the God of gods, for his steadfast love endures forever.
Psalm 136:3 Give thanks to the Lord of lords, for his steadfast love endures forever;
Psalm 136:4 to him who alone does great wonders, for his steadfast love endures forever;
Psalm 136:5 to him who made the heavens, for his steadfast love endures forever;
Psalm 136:6 to him who above the waters, for his steadfast love endures forever;
Psalm 136:7 to him who made the great lights, for his steadfast love endures forever;
Psalm 136:8 the sun to rule over the day, for his steadfast love endures forever;
Psalm 136:9 the moon and stars to rule over the night, for his steadfast love endures forever;
Psalm 136:10 to him who struck down the firstborn of Egypt, for his steadfast love endures forever;
Psalm 136:11 and brought Israel out from among them, for his steadfast love endures forever;
Psalm 136:12 with a strong hand and an outstretched arm, for his steadfast love endures forever;
Psalm 136:13 to him who divided the Red Sea in two, for his steadfast love endures forever;
Psalm 136:14  and made Israel pass through the midst of it, for his steadfast love endures forever;
Psalm 136:15 but  Pharaoh and his host in the Red Sea, for his steadfast love endures forever;
Psalm 136:16 to him who led his people through the wilderness, for his steadfast love endures forever;
Psalm 136:17 to him who struck down great kings, for his steadfast love endures forever;
Psalm 136:18 and killed mighty kings, for his steadfast love endures forever;
Psalm 136:19 Sihon, king of the Amorites, for his steadfast love endures forever;
Psalm 136:20 and Og, king of Bashan, for his steadfast love endures forever;
Psalm 136:21 and gave their land as a heritage, for his steadfast love endures forever;
Psalm 136:22 a heritage to Israel his servant, for his steadfast love endures forever.
Psalm 136:23 It is he who remembered us in our low estate, for his steadfast love endures forever;
Psalm 136:24 and rescued us from our foes, for his steadfast love endures forever;
Psalm 136:25 he who gives food to all flesh, for his steadfast love endures forever.
Psalm 136:26 Give thanks to the God of heaven, for his steadfast love endures forever.
Psalm 137:1 By the waters of Babylon, there we sat down and wept, when we remembered Zion.
Psalm 137:2 On the willows  there we hung up our lyres.
Psalm 137:3 For there our captors required of us songs, and our tormentors, mirth, saying, “Sing us one of the songs of Zion!”
Psalm 137:4  How shall we sing the LORD's song in a foreign land?
Psalm 137:5 If I forget you, O Jerusalem, let my right hand forget its skill!
Psalm 137:6 Let my tongue stick to the roof of my mouth, if I do not remember you, if I do not set Jerusalem above my highest joy!
Psalm 137:7 Remember, O LORD, against the “Lay it bare, lay it bare, down to its foundations!”
Psalm 137:8 O daughter of Babylon, repays you with what you have done to us!
Psalm 137:9 Blessed shall he be who takes your little ones and dashes them against the rock!
Psalm 138:1  the gods I sing your praise;
Psalm 138:2 I bow down
Psalm 138:3 On the day I called, you answered me; my strength of soul you increased.
Psalm 138:4  All the kings of the earth shall give you thanks, O LORD, for they have heard the words of your mouth,
Psalm 138:5 and they shall sing of the ways of the LORD, for great is the glory of the LORD.
Psalm 138:6  For though the LORD is high, he regards the lowly, but the haughty he knows from afar.
Psalm 138:7  right hand delivers me.
Psalm 138:8 The LORD will the work of your hands.
Psalm 139:1 O LORD, you have searched me and known me!
Psalm 139:2 You discern my thoughts from afar.
Psalm 139:3 You search out my path and my lying down and are acquainted with all my ways.
Psalm 139:4 Even before a word is on my tongue, behold, O LORD, you know it altogether.
Psalm 139:5 You lay your hand upon me.
Psalm 139:6  too wonderful for me; it is high; I cannot attain it.
Psalm 139:7  shall I flee from your presence?
Psalm 139:8 If I make my bed in Sheol, you are there!
Psalm 139:9 If I take the wings of the morning and dwell in the uttermost parts of the sea,
Psalm 139:10 even there your hand shall lead me, and your right hand shall hold me.
Psalm 139:11 If I say, “Surely the darkness shall cover me, and the light about me be night,”
Psalm 139:12  even the darkness is not dark to you; the night is bright as the day, for darkness is as light with you.
Psalm 139:13 For you knitted me together in my mother's womb.
Psalm 139:14 I praise you, for I am fearfully and wonderfully made.Wonderful are your works; my soul knows it very well.
Psalm 139:15  the depths of the earth.
Psalm 139:16 Your eyes saw my unformed substance; in your book were written, every one of them, the days that were formed for me, when as yet there was none of them.
Psalm 139:17 How precious to me are your thoughts, O God! How vast is the sum of them!
Psalm 139:18  the sand. I awake, and I am still with you.
Psalm 139:19 Oh that you would depart from me!
Psalm 139:20 They
Psalm 139:21  rise up against you?
Psalm 139:22 I hate them with complete hatred; I count them my enemies.
Psalm 139:23 Search me, O God, and know my heart!
Psalm 139:24 And see if there be any grievous way in me, and
Psalm 140:1  violent men,
Psalm 140:2 who plan evil things in their heart and stir up wars continually.
Psalm 140:3 They make venom of asps. Selah
Psalm 140:4 Guard me, O LORD, from the hands of the wicked; preserve me from violent men, who have planned to trip up my feet.
Psalm 140:5 The arrogant have snares for me. Selah
Psalm 140:6  the voice of my pleas for mercy, O LORD!
Psalm 140:7 O LORD, my Lord, the strength of my salvation, you have covered my head in the day of battle.
Psalm 140:8  they will be exalted! Selah
Psalm 140:9 As for the head of those who surround me, let the mischief of their lips overwhelm them!
Psalm 140:10 Let burning coals fall upon them! Let them be cast into fire, into miry pits, no more to rise!
Psalm 140:11 Let not the slanderer be established in the land; let evil hunt down the violent man speedily!
Psalm 140:12 I know that the LORD will will execute justice for the needy.
Psalm 140:13 Surelythe upright shall dwell in your presence.
Psalm 141:1 O LORD, I call upon you; hasten to me! Give ear to my voice when I call to you!
Psalm 141:2 Let the evening sacrifice!
Psalm 141:3 keep watch over the door of my lips!
Psalm 141:4  let me not eat of their delicacies!
Psalm 141:5  my prayer is continually against their evil deeds.
Psalm 141:6 When their judges are  then they shall hear my words, for they are pleasant.
Psalm 141:7 As when one plows and breaks up the earth, so shall our bones
Psalm 141:8 But
Psalm 141:9 Keep me from the trap that they have laid for me and from the snares of evildoers!
Psalm 141:10 Let the wicked fall into their own nets, while I pass by safely.
Psalm 142:1  plead for mercy to the LORD.
Psalm 142:2 I pour out my complaint before him; I tell my trouble before him.
Psalm 142:3 When my spirit hidden a trap for me.
Psalm 142:4 no refuge remains to me; no one cares for my soul.
Psalm 142:5 I cry to you, O LORD; I say, “You are my the land of the living.”
Psalm 142:6 for they are too strong for me!
Psalm 142:7  deal bountifully with me.
Psalm 143:1 Hear my prayer, O LORD;  righteousness!
Psalm 143:2  before you.
Psalm 143:3 For the enemy has pursued my soul; he has made me sit in darkness like those long dead.
Psalm 143:4 Therefore my spirit faints within me; my heart within me is appalled.
Psalm 143:5 I meditate on all that you have done; I ponder the work of your hands.
Psalm 143:6  a parched land. Selah
Psalm 143:7 lest I be like those who go down to the pit.
Psalm 143:8 for to you I lift up my soul.
Psalm 143:9
Psalm 143:10  level ground!
Psalm 143:11  bring my soul out of trouble!
Psalm 143:12 And in your steadfast love you will servant.
Psalm 144:1 Blessed be the LORD, mywho trains my hands for war, and my fingers for battle;
Psalm 144:2 he is my  under me.
Psalm 144:3 O LORD, regard him, or the son of man that you think of him?
Psalm 144:4  shadow.
Psalm 144:5 Touch the mountains so that they smoke!
Psalm 144:6 send out your arrows and rout them!
Psalm 144:7  of foreigners,
Psalm 144:8 whose mouths speak a right hand of falsehood.
Psalm 144:9 I will sing a ten-stringed harp I will play to you,
Psalm 144:10 who gives victory to kings, who rescues David his servant from the cruel sword.
Psalm 144:11 Rescue me and deliver me from the hand lies and whose right hand is a right hand of falsehood.
Psalm 144:12 May our sons in their youth be like corner pillars cut for the structure of a palace;
Psalm 144:13 providing all kinds of produce; may our sheep bring forth thousands and ten thousands in our fields;
Psalm 144:14 may our cattle be heavy with young, suffering no mishap or failure in bearing; cry of distress in our streets!
Psalm 144:15 Blessed are the people whose God is the LORD!
Psalm 145:1  King, and bless your name forever and ever.
Psalm 145:2 Every day I will bless you and praise your name forever and ever.
Psalm 145:3  greatness is unsearchable.
Psalm 145:4  One generation shall commend your works to another, and shall declare your mighty acts.
Psalm 145:5 On the glorious splendor of your majesty, and on your wondrous works, I will meditate.
Psalm 145:6 They shall speak of the might of your awesome deeds, and I will declare your greatness.
Psalm 145:7 They shall pour forth the fame of your abundant goodness and shall sing aloud of your righteousness.
Psalm 145:8 The LORD is gracious and merciful, slow to anger and abounding in steadfast love.
Psalm 145:9 The LORD is good to all, and his mercy is over all that he has made.
Psalm 145:10  saints shall bless you!
Psalm 145:11 They shall speak of the glory of your kingdom and tell of your power,
Psalm 145:12 to the glorious splendor of your kingdom.
Psalm 145:13
Psalm 145:14 The LORD raises up all who are bowed down.
Psalm 145:15 The eyes of all look to you, and you give them their food in due season.
Psalm 145:16 You satisfy the desire of every living thing.
Psalm 145:17 The LORD is kind in all his works.
Psalm 145:18 The LORD is in truth.
Psalm 145:19 He hears their cry and saves them.
Psalm 145:20 The LORD preserves all who love him, but all the wicked he will destroy.
Psalm 145:21 My mouth will speak the praise of the LORD, and let all flesh bless his holy name forever and ever.
Psalm 146:1  Praise the LORD! Praise the LORD, O my soul!
Psalm 146:2 I will praise the LORDI will sing praises to my God while I have my being.
Psalm 146:3  no salvation.
Psalm 146:4 When his breath departs, he returns to the earth; on that very day his plans perish.
Psalm 146:5  hope is in the LORD his God,
Psalm 146:6 who keeps faith forever;
Psalm 146:7 The LORD sets the prisoners free;
Psalm 146:8 the LORD loves the righteous.
Psalm 146:9  the way of the wicked he brings to ruin.
Psalm 146:10 Praise the LORD!
Psalm 147:1  a song of praise is fitting.
Psalm 147:2 The LORD gathers the outcasts of Israel.
Psalm 147:3 He heals binds up their wounds.
Psalm 147:4 He gives to all of them their names.
Psalm 147:5 his understanding is beyond measure.
Psalm 147:6 The LORD  he casts the wicked to the ground.
Psalm 147:7  the lyre!
Psalm 147:8 He covers the heavens with clouds; he prepares grass grow on the hills.
Psalm 147:9 He the young ravens that cry.
Psalm 147:10 His delight is not in the strength of the horse, nor his pleasure in the legs of a man,
Psalm 147:11 but the LORD hope in his steadfast love.
Psalm 147:12 Praise the LORD, O Jerusalem! Praise your God, O Zion!
Psalm 147:13 For he strengthens the bars of your gates; he blesses your children within you.
Psalm 147:14 He finest of the wheat.
Psalm 147:15 He sends out his command to the earth; his word runs swiftly.
Psalm 147:16 He gives frost like ashes.
Psalm 147:17 He hurls down his crystals of cold?
Psalm 147:18 He sends out his word, and melts them; he makes his wind blow and the waters flow.
Psalm 147:19 He declares his word to Jacob, his  to Israel.
Psalm 147:20 HePraise the LORD!
Psalm 148:1  in the heights!
Psalm 148:2 Praise him, all his angels; praise him, all his hosts!
Psalm 148:3 Praise him, sun and moon, praise him, all you shining stars!
Psalm 148:4 Praise him, you waters above the heavens!
Psalm 148:5  he commanded and they were created.
Psalm 148:6 And he
Psalm 148:7 Praise the LORD great sea creatures and all deeps,
Psalm 148:8  fulfilling his word!
Psalm 148:9  cedars!
Psalm 148:10  flying birds!
Psalm 148:11 Kings of the earth and all peoples, princes and all rulers of the earth!
Psalm 148:12 Young men and maidens together, old men and children!
Psalm 148:13 his majesty is above earth and heaven.
Psalm 148:14 He hasPraise the LORD!
Psalm 149:1  the assembly of the godly!
Psalm 149:2 Let Israel King!
Psalm 149:3 Let them praise his name with lyre!
Psalm 149:4 For the LORD adorns the humble with salvation.
Psalm 149:5 Let the godly exult in glory; let them beds.
Psalm 149:6 Let two-edged swords in their hands,
Psalm 149:7 to execute vengeance on the nations and punishments on the peoples,
Psalm 149:8 to bind their kings with chains and their nobles with fetters of iron,
Psalm 149:9 to execute on them the judgmentPraise the LORD!
Psalm 150:1
Psalm 150:2 Praise him for his greatness!
Psalm 150:3 Praise him with harp!
Psalm 150:4 Praise him with pipe!
Psalm 150:5 Praise him with sounding cymbals; praise him with loud clashing cymbals!
Psalm 150:6 LetPraise the LORD!
Proverbs 1:1  The proverbs of Solomon, son of David, king of Israel:
Proverbs 1:2 To know wisdom and instruction, to understand words of insight,
Proverbs 1:3 to receive instruction in wise dealing, in righteousness, justice, and equity;
Proverbs 1:4 to give prudence to discretion to the youth —
Proverbs 1:5 Let the wise hear and increase in learning, and the one who understands obtain guidance,
Proverbs 1:6 to understand a proverb and a saying,  riddles.
Proverbs 1:7  The fear of the LORD is the beginning of knowledge; fools despise wisdom and instruction.
Proverbs 1:8  Hear, my son, your father's instruction, and forsake not your mother's teaching,
Proverbs 1:9 for they are pendants for your neck.
Proverbs 1:10 My son, if sinners entice you, do not consent.
Proverbs 1:11 If they say, “Come with us,let us ambush the innocent without reason;
Proverbs 1:12 like Sheol let us those who go down to the pit;
Proverbs 1:13 we shall find all precious goods, we shall fill our houses with plunder;
Proverbs 1:14 throw in your lot among us; we will all have one purse” —
Proverbs 1:15 my son,hold back your foot from their paths,
Proverbs 1:16 for their feet run to evil, and they make haste to shed blood.
Proverbs 1:17  For in vain is a net spread in the sight of any bird,
Proverbs 1:18 but these men set an ambush for their own lives.
Proverbs 1:19 it takes away the life of its possessors.
Proverbs 1:20  Wisdom cries aloud in the street, in the markets she raises her voice;
Proverbs 1:21 at the head of the noisy streets she cries out; at the entrance of the city gates she speaks:
Proverbs 1:22 “How long, O hate knowledge?
Proverbs 1:23 If you turn at my reproof, pour out my spirit to you; I will make my words known to you.
Proverbs 1:24  stretched out my hand and no one has heeded,
Proverbs 1:25 because you have would have none of my reproof,
Proverbs 1:26 I also terror strikes you,
Proverbs 1:27 when terror strikes you like a storm and your calamity comes like a whirlwind, when distress and anguish come upon you.
Proverbs 1:28  Then they will call upon me, but I will not answer; they will seek me diligently but will not find me.
Proverbs 1:29 Because they did not choose the fear of the LORD,
Proverbs 1:30  despised all my reproof,
Proverbs 1:31 therefore they shall eat their fill of their own devices.
Proverbs 1:32 For the simple are killed by the complacency of fools destroys them;
Proverbs 1:33 but at ease, without dread of disaster.”
Proverbs 2:1  if you receive my words and treasure up my commandments with you,
Proverbs 2:2 making your ear attentive to wisdom and inclining your heart to understanding;
Proverbs 2:3 yes, if you call out for insight and raise your voice for understanding,
Proverbs 2:4 if you seek it like hidden treasures,
Proverbs 2:5 then you will understand the fear of the LORD and find the knowledge of God.
Proverbs 2:6 For the LORD gives wisdom; from his mouth come knowledge and understanding;
Proverbs 2:7 he stores up sound wisdom for the upright; he is walk in integrity,
Proverbs 2:8 guarding the paths of justice and saints.
Proverbs 2:9  righteousness and justice and equity, every good path;
Proverbs 2:10 for wisdom will come into your heart, and knowledge will be pleasant to your soul;
Proverbs 2:11  watch over you, understanding will guard you,
Proverbs 2:12 delivering you from the way of evil, from men of perverted speech,
Proverbs 2:13 who forsake the paths of uprightness to walk in the ways of darkness,
Proverbs 2:14 who delight in the perverseness of evil,
Proverbs 2:15 men whose devious in their ways.
Proverbs 2:16 So her smooth words,
Proverbs 2:17 who forsakes the covenant of her God;
Proverbs 2:18
Proverbs 2:19 none who go to her come back, nor do they regain the paths of life.
Proverbs 2:20 So you will walk in the way of the good and keep to the paths of the righteous.
Proverbs 2:21 For the upright will inhabit the land, and those with integrity will remain in it,
Proverbs 2:22 but the wicked will be rooted out of it.
Proverbs 3:1 but let your heart keep my commandments,
Proverbs 3:2 for peace they will add to you.
Proverbs 3:3 Let notwrite them on the tablet of your heart.
Proverbs 3:4 So you will  in the sight of God and man.
Proverbs 3:5  do not lean on your own understanding.
Proverbs 3:6 In all your ways will make straight your paths.
Proverbs 3:7 fear the LORD, and turn away from evil.
Proverbs 3:8 It will be  to your bones.
Proverbs 3:9 Honor the LORD with your wealth and with the firstfruits of all your produce;
Proverbs 3:10 then your barns will be filled with plenty, and your vats will be bursting with wine.
Proverbs 3:11  My son, do not despise the LORD's discipline or be weary of his reproof,
Proverbs 3:12 for the LORD reproves him whom he loves, as a father the son in whom he delights.
Proverbs 3:13  Blessed is the one who finds wisdom, and the one who gets understanding,
Proverbs 3:14  gold.
Proverbs 3:15 She is more precious than nothing you desire can compare with her.
Proverbs 3:16  riches and honor.
Proverbs 3:17 Her ways are ways of pleasantness, and all her paths are peace.
Proverbs 3:18 She is lay hold of her; those who hold her fast are called blessed.
Proverbs 3:19  he established the heavens;
Proverbs 3:20 by his knowledge the clouds drop down the dew.
Proverbs 3:21 My son, do not lose sight of these — keep sound wisdom and discretion,
Proverbs 3:22 and they will be adornment for your neck.
Proverbs 3:23 and your foot will not stumble.
Proverbs 3:24  your sleep will be sweet.
Proverbs 3:25   of the wicked, when it comes,
Proverbs 3:26 for the LORD will be your confidence and will keep your foot from being caught.
Proverbs 3:27   when it is in your power to do it.
Proverbs 3:28  Do not say to your neighbor, “Go, and come again, tomorrow I will give it” — when you have it with you.
Proverbs 3:29  dwells trustingly beside you.
Proverbs 3:30  Do not contend with a man for no reason, when he has done you no harm.
Proverbs 3:31  a man of violence and do not choose any of his ways,
Proverbs 3:32 for in his confidence.
Proverbs 3:33  blesses the dwelling of the righteous.
Proverbs 3:34 Toward the
Proverbs 3:35 The wise will inherit honor, but fools get  disgrace.
Proverbs 4:1   insight,
Proverbs 4:2 for I give you good precepts; do not forsake my teaching.
Proverbs 4:3 When I was a son with my father,  the only one in the sight of my mother,
Proverbs 4:4 hekeep my commandments, and live.
Proverbs 4:5  insight; do not forget, and do not turn away from the words of my mouth.
Proverbs 4:6 Do not forsake her, and she will keep you; love her, and she will guard you.
Proverbs 4:7  insight.
Proverbs 4:8 Prize her highly, and she will exalt you; she will if you embrace her.
Proverbs 4:9 She will place on your head a graceful garland; she will bestow on you a beautiful crown.”
Proverbs 4:10  the years of your life may be many.
Proverbs 4:11 I have taught you the way of wisdom; I have led you in the paths of uprightness.
Proverbs 4:12 When you walk, if you run, you will not stumble.
Proverbs 4:13  life.
Proverbs 4:14  Do not enter the path of the wicked, and do not walk in the way of the evil.
Proverbs 4:15 Avoid it; do not go on it; turn away from it and pass on.
Proverbs 4:16 For they cannot sleep unless they have done wrong; they are robbed of sleep unless they have made someone stumble.
Proverbs 4:17 For they eat the bread of wickedness and drink the wine of violence.
Proverbs 4:18 But full day.
Proverbs 4:19  stumble.
Proverbs 4:20  My son, be attentive to my words; incline your ear to my sayings.
Proverbs 4:21 keep them within your heart.
Proverbs 4:22 For they are  flesh.
Proverbs 4:23 Keep your heart with all vigilance, for the springs of life.
Proverbs 4:24 Put away from you devious talk far from you.
Proverbs 4:25  Let your eyes look directly forward, and your gaze be straight before you.
Proverbs 4:26 then all your ways will be sure.
Proverbs 4:27  Do not swerve to the right or to the left; turn your foot away from evil.
Proverbs 5:1 incline your ear to my understanding,
Proverbs 5:2 that you may keep guard knowledge.
Proverbs 5:3 For the lips of smoother than oil,
Proverbs 5:4 but in the end she is a two-edged sword.
Proverbs 5:5 Her feet  Sheol;
Proverbs 5:6 she does not ponder the path of life; her ways wander, and she does not know it.
Proverbs 5:7 And now, O sons, listen to me, and do not depart from the words of my mouth.
Proverbs 5:8 Keep your way far from her, and do not go near the door of her house,
Proverbs 5:9 lest you give your honor to others and your years to the merciless,
Proverbs 5:10 lest strangers take their fill of your strength, and your labors go to the house of a foreigner,
Proverbs 5:11 and at the end of your life you groan, when your flesh and body are consumed,
Proverbs 5:12 and you say, despised reproof!
Proverbs 5:13 I did not listen to the voice of my teachers or incline my ear to my instructors.
Proverbs 5:14  I am at the brink of utter ruin in the assembled congregation.”
Proverbs 5:15 Drink water from your own cistern, flowing water from your own well.
Proverbs 5:16 Should your in the streets?
Proverbs 5:17  Let them be for yourself alone, and not for strangers with you.
Proverbs 5:18 Let your the wife of your youth,
Proverbs 5:19 a lovely  always in her love.
Proverbs 5:20 Why should you be intoxicated, my son, with
Proverbs 5:21 For  all his paths.
Proverbs 5:22 The ensnare him, and he is held fast in the cords of his sin.
Proverbs 5:23  led astray.
Proverbs 6:1 My son, if you have put up given your pledge for a stranger,
Proverbs 6:2 if you are snared in the words of your mouth, caught in the words of your mouth,
Proverbs 6:3 then do this, my son, and save yourself, for you have come into the hand of your neighbor: go, hasten, plead urgently with your neighbor.
Proverbs 6:4  Give your eyes no sleep and your eyelids no slumber;
Proverbs 6:5 save yourself like a gazelle from the hand of the hunter,like a bird from the hand of the fowler.
Proverbs 6:6  be wise.
Proverbs 6:7 officer, or ruler,
Proverbs 6:8 she prepares her bread gathers her food in harvest.
Proverbs 6:9  O sluggard? When will you arise from your sleep?
Proverbs 6:10  folding of the hands to rest,
Proverbs 6:11  and poverty will come upon you like a robber, and want like an armed man.
Proverbs 6:12  crooked speech,
Proverbs 6:13   with his feet, points with his finger,
Proverbs 6:14 with sowing discord;
Proverbs 6:15 therefore calamity will come upon him suddenly;  beyond healing.
Proverbs 6:16 There areseven that are an abomination to him:
Proverbs 6:17  hands that shed innocent blood,
Proverbs 6:18 feet that make haste to run to evil,
Proverbs 6:19  sows discord among brothers.
Proverbs 6:20 and forsake not your mother's teaching.
Proverbs 6:21 tie them around your neck.
Proverbs 6:22  watch over you; and when you awake, they will talk with you.
Proverbs 6:23 For the commandment is reproofs of discipline are the way of life,
Proverbs 6:24 to preserve you from the evil woman,
Proverbs 6:25  eyelashes;
Proverbs 6:26 for hunts down a precious life.
Proverbs 6:27 Can a man carry chest and his clothes not be burned?
Proverbs 6:28 Or can one walk on hot coals and his feet not be scorched?
Proverbs 6:29 So is he who goes in to his neighbor's wife; none who touches her will go unpunished.
Proverbs 6:30 People do not despise a thief if he steals to satisfy his appetite when he is hungry,
Proverbs 6:31 but sevenfold; he will give all the goods of his house.
Proverbs 6:32 He who commits adultery lacks sense; he who does it destroys himself.
Proverbs 6:33 He will get wounds and dishonor, and his disgrace will not be wiped away.
Proverbs 6:34 For he takes revenge.
Proverbs 6:35 He will accept no compensation; he will refuse though you multiply gifts.
Proverbs 7:1  treasure up my commandments with you;
Proverbs 7:2  the apple of your eye;
Proverbs 7:3 write them on the tablet of your heart.
Proverbs 7:4 Say to wisdom, “You are my sister,” and call insight your intimate friend,
Proverbs 7:5 to keep you from  with her smooth words.
Proverbs 7:6 For at the window of my house I have looked out through my lattice,
Proverbs 7:7 and I have seen among lacking sense,
Proverbs 7:8 passing along the street near her corner, taking the road to her house
Proverbs 7:9 in the time of night and darkness.
Proverbs 7:10 And behold, the woman meets him,
Proverbs 7:11 She isher feet do not stay at home;
Proverbs 7:12 now in the street, now in the market, and lies in wait.
Proverbs 7:13 She seizes him and kisses him, and with bold face she says to him,
Proverbs 7:14 “I had to paid my vows;
Proverbs 7:15 so now I have come out to meet you, to seek you eagerly, and I have found you.
Proverbs 7:16 I have spread my couch with Egyptian linen;
Proverbs 7:17 I have perfumed my bed with cinnamon.
Proverbs 7:18 Come, let us take our fill of love till morning; let us delight ourselves with love.
Proverbs 7:19 For my husband is not at home; he has gone on a long journey;
Proverbs 7:20 he took a bag of money with him; at full moon he will come home.”
Proverbs 7:21 With much seductive speech she persuades him; with her smooth talk she compels him.
Proverbs 7:22 All at once he follows her, as an ox goes to the slaughter, or as a stag is caught fast
Proverbs 7:23 till an arrow pierces its liver; as a bird rushes into a snare; he does not know that it will cost him his life.
Proverbs 7:24 And now, O sons, listen to me, and be attentive to the words of my mouth.
Proverbs 7:25 Let not your heart turn aside to her ways; do not stray into her paths,
Proverbs 7:26 for many a victim has she laid low, and all her slain are a mighty throng.
Proverbs 7:27 Her house is the way to Sheol, going down to the chambers of death.
Proverbs 8:1 Does not understanding raise her voice?
Proverbs 8:2 On the heights beside the way, at the crossroads she takes her stand;
Proverbs 8:3 beside the town, at the entrance of the portals she cries aloud:
Proverbs 8:4 “To you, O the children of man.
Proverbs 8:5 O fools, learn sense.
Proverbs 8:6 Hear, for I will speak what is right,
Proverbs 8:7 for my mouth will utter truth; wickedness is an abomination to my lips.
Proverbs 8:8 All the words of my mouth are righteous; there is nothing twisted or crooked in them.
Proverbs 8:9 They are all straight to him who understands, and right to those who find knowledge.
Proverbs 8:10  Take my instruction instead of silver, and knowledge rather than choice gold,
Proverbs 8:11  all that you may desire cannot compare with her.
Proverbs 8:12 “I, wisdom, dwell with prudence, and I find knowledge and discretion.
Proverbs 8:13  perverted speech I hate.
Proverbs 8:14 I have I have strength.
Proverbs 8:15 By me kings reign, and rulers decree what is just;
Proverbs 8:16 by me princes rule, and nobles, all who govern justly.
Proverbs 8:17  those who seek me diligently find me.
Proverbs 8:18  righteousness.
Proverbs 8:19 My fruit is choice silver.
Proverbs 8:20 I walk in the way of righteousness, in the paths of justice,
Proverbs 8:21 granting an inheritance to those who love me, and filling their treasuries.
Proverbs 8:22  of old.
Proverbs 8:23 Ages ago I was before the beginning of the earth.
Proverbs 8:24 When there were no brought forth, when there were no springs abounding with water.
Proverbs 8:25 Before the mountainsbefore the hills, I was brought forth,
Proverbs 8:26 before he had made the earth with its fields, or the first of the dust of the world.
Proverbs 8:27 When he a circle on the face of the deep,
Proverbs 8:28 when he  the fountains of the deep,
Proverbs 8:29 when he the foundations of the earth,
Proverbs 8:30 then delight, rejoicing before him always,
Proverbs 8:31  inhabited world and delighting in the children of man.
Proverbs 8:32 “And now,blessed are those who keep my ways.
Proverbs 8:33  Hear instruction and be wise, and do not neglect it.
Proverbs 8:34  Blessed is the one who listens to me, watching daily at my gates, waiting beside my doors.
Proverbs 8:35 For obtains favor from the LORD,
Proverbs 8:36 but he who fails to find me love death.”
Proverbs 9:1  pillars.
Proverbs 9:2 She has set her table.
Proverbs 9:3 She has the highest places in the town,
Proverbs 9:4 To him who lacks sense she says,
Proverbs 9:5 “Come, the wine I have mixed.
Proverbs 9:6 Leaveand walk in the way of insight.”
Proverbs 9:7 Whoever corrects a scoffer gets himself abuse, and he who reproves a wicked man incurs injury.
Proverbs 9:8 reprove a wise man, and he will love you.
Proverbs 9:9 Give instruction increase in learning.
Proverbs 9:10  the knowledge of the Holy One is insight.
Proverbs 9:11 For by me your days will be multiplied, and years will be added to your life.
Proverbs 9:12  If you are wise, you are wise for yourself; if you scoff, you alone will bear it.
Proverbs 9:13  knows nothing.
Proverbs 9:14 She sits at the door of her house; she takes a seat on the highest places of the town,
Proverbs 9:15 calling to those who pass by, who are going straight on their way,
Proverbs 9:16  “Whoever is simple, let him turn in here!” And to him who lacks sense she says,
Proverbs 9:17  bread eaten in secret is pleasant.”
Proverbs 9:18 But he does not know  are there, that her guests are in the depths of Sheol.
Proverbs 10:1 but a foolish son is a sorrow to his mother.
Proverbs 10:2 but righteousness delivers from death.
Proverbs 10:3 but he thwarts the craving of the wicked.
Proverbs 10:4 A slack handbut the hand of the diligent makes rich.
Proverbs 10:5 He who a son who brings shame.
Proverbs 10:6 Blessings are on the head of the righteous, but
Proverbs 10:7  the name of the wicked will rot.
Proverbs 10:8  The wise of heart will receive commandments, but a babbling fool will come to ruin.
Proverbs 10:9  will be found out.
Proverbs 10:10 Whoever winks the eye causes trouble, and a babbling fool will come to ruin.
Proverbs 10:11  conceals violence.
Proverbs 10:12 Hatred stirs up strife, but love covers all offenses.
Proverbs 10:13 On the lips of him who has understanding, wisdom is found, but lacks sense.
Proverbs 10:14 The wise the mouth of a fool brings ruin near.
Proverbs 10:15  A rich man's wealth is his strong city; the poverty of the poor is their ruin.
Proverbs 10:16 The wage of the righteous leads to life, the gain of the wicked to sin.
Proverbs 10:17 Whoever heeds instruction is on the path to life, but he who rejects reproof leads others astray.
Proverbs 10:18 The one who conceals hatred has lying lips, and whoever utters slander is a fool.
Proverbs 10:19 but whoever restrains his lips is prudent.
Proverbs 10:20 The tongue of the righteous is choice silver; the heart of the wicked is of little worth.
Proverbs 10:21 The lips of the righteous feed many, but fools die for lack of sense.
Proverbs 10:22
Proverbs 10:23 Doing wrong is wisdom is pleasure to a man of understanding.
Proverbs 10:24  the desire of the righteous will be granted.
Proverbs 10:25 When the righteous is established forever.
Proverbs 10:26 Like vinegar to the teeth and smoke to the eyes, so is the sluggard to those who send him.
Proverbs 10:27 but the years of the wicked will be short.
Proverbs 10:28 but the expectation of the wicked will perish.
Proverbs 10:29  The way of the LORD is a stronghold to the blameless, but destruction to evildoers.
Proverbs 10:30  the wicked will not dwell in the land.
Proverbs 10:31  The mouth of the righteous brings forth wisdom, but the perverse tongue will be cut off.
Proverbs 10:32 The lips of the righteous what is perverse.
Proverbs 11:1 but a just weight is his delight.
Proverbs 11:2  the humble is wisdom.
Proverbs 11:3 but the crookedness of the treacherous destroys them.
Proverbs 11:4 but righteousness delivers from death.
Proverbs 11:5 The righteousness of the blameless keeps his way straight, but the wicked falls by his own wickedness.
Proverbs 11:6  are taken captive by their lust.
Proverbs 11:7 When the wicked dies, his  perishes too.
Proverbs 11:8  The righteous is delivered from trouble, and the wicked walks into it instead.
Proverbs 11:9 With his mouth the godless man would destroy his neighbor, but by knowledge the righteous are delivered.
Proverbs 11:10  When it goes well with the righteous, the city rejoices, and when the wicked perish there are shouts of gladness.
Proverbs 11:11 By the blessing of the upright a city is exalted, but it is overthrown.
Proverbs 11:12 Whoever belittles his neighbor lacks sense, but a man of understanding remains silent.
Proverbs 11:13 Whoever goes about slandering reveals secrets, but he who is trustworthy in spirit keeps a thing covered.
Proverbs 11:14 Where there isbut in an abundance of counselors there is safety.
Proverbs 11:15  Whoever puts up security for a stranger will surely suffer harm, but he who hates striking hands in pledge is secure.
Proverbs 11:16  violent men get riches.
Proverbs 11:17  A man who is kind benefits himself, but a cruel man hurts himself.
Proverbs 11:18 The wicked earns deceptive wages, but one who sows righteousness gets a sure reward.
Proverbs 11:19 Whoever is steadfast in righteousness he who pursues evil will die.
Proverbs 11:20 Those of his delight.
Proverbs 11:21  the offspring of the righteous will be delivered.
Proverbs 11:22 Like a gold ring in a pig's snout is a beautiful woman without discretion.
Proverbs 11:23 The desire of the righteous ends only in good, the expectation of the wicked in wrath.
Proverbs 11:24  freely, yet grows all the richer; another withholds what he should give, and only suffers want.
Proverbs 11:25  one who waters will himself be watered.
Proverbs 11:26  sells it.
Proverbs 11:27 Whoever diligently seeks good seeks favor, him who searches for it.
Proverbs 11:28 Whoever flourish like a green leaf.
Proverbs 11:29 Whoever inherit the wind, and the fool will be servant to the wise of heart.
Proverbs 11:30 The fruit of the righteous is captures souls is wise.
Proverbs 11:31 If the righteous is repaid on earth, how much more the wicked and the sinner!
Proverbs 12:1 Whoever loves discipline loves knowledge, but he who stupid.
Proverbs 12:2 A good man obtains favor from the LORD, but a man of evil devices he condemns.
Proverbs 12:3 No one is established by wickedness, but the root of the righteous will never be moved.
Proverbs 12:4  rottenness in his bones.
Proverbs 12:5  The thoughts of the righteous are just; the counsels of the wicked are deceitful.
Proverbs 12:6 The words of the wicked the mouth of the upright delivers them.
Proverbs 12:7 but the house of the righteous will stand.
Proverbs 12:8 A man is commended according to his good sense, but one of twisted mind is despised.
Proverbs 12:9 Better to be lowly and have a servant than to play the great man and lack bread.
Proverbs 12:10  Whoever is righteous has regard for the life of his beast, but the mercy of the wicked is cruel.
Proverbs 12:11  worthless pursuits lacks sense.
Proverbs 12:12 Whoever is wicked covets the spoil of evildoers, but the root of the righteous bears fruit.
Proverbs 12:13 An evil man is ensnaredbut the righteous escapes from trouble.
Proverbs 12:14 From the fruit of his mouthand the work of a man's hand comes back to him.
Proverbs 12:15  The way of a fool is right in his own eyes, but a wise man listens to advice.
Proverbs 12:16  The vexation of a fool is known at once, but the prudent ignores an insult.
Proverbs 12:17  a false witness utters deceit.
Proverbs 12:18  healing.
Proverbs 12:19 Truthful lips endure forever, but a lying tongue is but for a moment.
Proverbs 12:20 Deceit is in the heart of those who devise evil, but those who plan peace have joy.
Proverbs 12:21  No ill befalls the righteous, but the wicked are filled with trouble.
Proverbs 12:22 but those who act faithfully are his delight.
Proverbs 12:23 but the heart of fools proclaims folly.
Proverbs 12:24  put to forced labor.
Proverbs 12:25  Anxiety in a man's heart weighs him down, but a good word makes him glad.
Proverbs 12:26 One who is righteous is a guide to his neighbor,  but the way of the wicked leads them astray.
Proverbs 12:27
Proverbs 12:28  In the path of righteousness is life, and in its pathway there is no death.
Proverbs 13:1 A wise son hears his father's instruction, but a scoffer does not listen to rebuke.
Proverbs 13:2 From the fruit of his mouth a man is for violence.
Proverbs 13:3  comes to ruin.
Proverbs 13:4  is richly supplied.
Proverbs 13:5 The righteous hates falsehood, but the wicked brings shame  and disgrace.
Proverbs 13:6  way is blameless, but sin overthrows the wicked.
Proverbs 13:7   yet has great wealth.
Proverbs 13:8 The ransom of a man's life is his wealth, but a poor man hears no threat.
Proverbs 13:9  the lamp of the wicked will be put out.
Proverbs 13:10  By insolence comes nothing but strife, but with those who take advice is wisdom.
Proverbs 13:11   will dwindle, but whoever gathers little by little will increase it.
Proverbs 13:12 Hope deferred makes the heart sick,  a tree of life.
Proverbs 13:13 Whoever rewarded.
Proverbs 13:14 The teaching of the wise is turn away from the snares of death.
Proverbs 13:15
Proverbs 13:16 but a fool flaunts his folly.
Proverbs 13:17 A wicked messenger falls into trouble, but a faithful envoy brings healing.
Proverbs 13:18 Poverty and disgrace come to him who heeds reproof is honored.
Proverbs 13:19  A desire fulfilled is sweet to the soul, but to turn away from evil is an abomination to fools.
Proverbs 13:20 Whoever walks with the wise becomes wise, but the companion of fools will suffer harm.
Proverbs 13:21 but the righteous are rewarded with good.
Proverbs 13:22  the sinner's wealth is laid up for the righteous.
Proverbs 13:23 The fallow ground of the poor would yield much food, but it is swept away through injustice.
Proverbs 13:24
Proverbs 13:25  The righteous has enough to satisfy his appetite, but the belly of the wicked suffers want.
Proverbs 14:1  tears it down.
Proverbs 14:2 Whoever devious in his ways despises him.
Proverbs 14:3 By the mouth of a fool comesbut the lips of the wise will preserve them.
Proverbs 14:4 Where there are no oxen, the manger is clean, but abundant crops come by the strength of the ox.
Proverbs 14:5  a false witness breathes out lies.
Proverbs 14:6  knowledge is easy for a man of understanding.
Proverbs 14:7 Leave the presence of a fool, for there you do not meet words of knowledge.
Proverbs 14:8 The wisdom of the prudent is to discern his way, but the folly of fools is deceiving.
Proverbs 14:9
Proverbs 14:10 The heart knows its own bitterness, and no stranger shares its joy.
Proverbs 14:11  The house of the wicked will be destroyed, but the tent of the upright will flourish.
Proverbs 14:12
Proverbs 14:13 Even in laughter the heart may ache, and grief.
Proverbs 14:14 The backslider in heart will be a good man will be filled with the fruit of his ways.
Proverbs 14:15  The simple believes everything, but the prudent gives thought to his steps.
Proverbs 14:16  turns away from evil, but a fool is reckless and careless.
Proverbs 14:17 A man of quick temper acts foolishly, and a man of evil devices is hated.
Proverbs 14:18 The simple inherit folly, but the prudent are crowned with knowledge.
Proverbs 14:19  The evil bow down before the good, the wicked at the gates of the righteous.
Proverbs 14:20 but the rich has many friends.
Proverbs 14:21 Whoever blessed is he who is generous to the poor.
Proverbs 14:22 Do they not go astray who steadfast love and faithfulness.
Proverbs 14:23 In all toil there is profit, but mere talk tends only to poverty.
Proverbs 14:24 The crown of the wise is their wealth, but the folly of fools brings folly.
Proverbs 14:25 A truthful witness saves lives, but one who breathes out lies is deceitful.
Proverbs 14:26 In the fear of the LORD one has a refuge.
Proverbs 14:27 The fear of the LORD is turn away from the snares of death.
Proverbs 14:28 In a multitude of people is the glory of a king, but without people a prince is ruined.
Proverbs 14:29 Whoever is slow to anger has great understanding, but he who has a hasty temper exalts folly.
Proverbs 14:30 A tranquil the bones rot.
Proverbs 14:31 Whoever oppresses a poor manbut he who is generous to the needy honors him.
Proverbs 14:32  the righteous finds refuge in his death.
Proverbs 14:33 Wisdom
Proverbs 14:34 Righteousness exalts a nation, but sin is a reproach to any people.
Proverbs 14:35 A servant who deals wisely has the king's favor, but his wrath falls on one who acts shamefully.
Proverbs 15:1  a harsh word stirs up anger.
Proverbs 15:2 The tongue of the wise commends knowledge, but the mouths of fools pour out folly.
Proverbs 15:3  The eyes of the LORD are in every place, keeping watch on the evil and the good.
Proverbs 15:4  perverseness in it breaks the spirit.
Proverbs 15:5  whoever heeds reproof is prudent.
Proverbs 15:6 In the house of the righteous there is much treasure, but trouble befalls the income of the wicked.
Proverbs 15:7
Proverbs 15:8  the prayer of the upright is acceptable to him.
Proverbs 15:9 The way of the wicked is an abomination to the LORD, but he loves him who pursues righteousness.
Proverbs 15:10 There iswhoever hates reproof will die.
Proverbs 15:11 Sheol and Abaddon lie open before the LORD; how much more the hearts of the children of man!
Proverbs 15:12  does not like to be reproved; he will not go to the wise.
Proverbs 15:13  crushed.
Proverbs 15:14  The heart of him who has understanding seeks knowledge, but the mouths of fools feed on folly.
Proverbs 15:15 All the days of the afflicted are evil, but the cheerful of heart has a continual feast.
Proverbs 15:16  Better is a little with the fear of the LORD than great treasure and trouble with it.
Proverbs 15:17  a fattened ox and hatred with it.
Proverbs 15:18  slow to anger quiets contention.
Proverbs 15:19 The way of a level highway.
Proverbs 15:20  A wise son makes a glad father, but a foolish man despises his mother.
Proverbs 15:21  walks straight ahead.
Proverbs 15:22  Without counsel plans fail, but with many advisers they succeed.
Proverbs 15:23 To make an apt answer is a joy to a man, and a word in season, how good it is!
Proverbs 15:24 The path of life leads upward for the prudent, that he may turn away from Sheol beneath.
Proverbs 15:25 The LORD tears down the house of the widow's boundaries.
Proverbs 15:26  gracious words are pure.
Proverbs 15:27 Whoever is bribes will live.
Proverbs 15:28 The heart of the righteous the mouth of the wicked pours out evil things.
Proverbs 15:29 The LORD is hears the prayer of the righteous.
Proverbs 15:30   the bones.
Proverbs 15:31  life-giving reproof will dwell among the wise.
Proverbs 15:32 Whoever gains intelligence.
Proverbs 15:33  humility comes before honor.
Proverbs 16:1 The plans of the heart belong to man, but the answer of the tongue is from the LORD.
Proverbs 16:2
Proverbs 16:3  Commit your work to the LORD, and your plans will be established.
Proverbs 16:4  the wicked for the day of trouble.
Proverbs 16:5 Everyone who is arrogant in heart isbe assured, he will not go unpunished.
Proverbs 16:6 By turns away from evil.
Proverbs 16:7 When a man's ways please the LORD, he makes even his enemies to be at peace with him.
Proverbs 16:8  Better is a little with righteousness than great revenues with injustice.
Proverbs 16:9  the LORD establishes his steps.
Proverbs 16:10  An oracle is on the lips of a king; his mouth does not sin in judgment.
Proverbs 16:11  A just balance and scales are the LORD's; all the weights in the bag are his work.
Proverbs 16:12 It is an abomination to kings to do evil, for the throne is established by righteousness.
Proverbs 16:13  Righteous lips are the delight of a king, and he loves him who speaks what is right.
Proverbs 16:14  appease it.
Proverbs 16:15  the clouds that bring the spring rain.
Proverbs 16:16  silver.
Proverbs 16:17 The highway of the upright turns aside from evil; whoever guards his way preserves his life.
Proverbs 16:18  Pride goes before destruction, and a haughty spirit before a fall.
Proverbs 16:19  divide the spoil with the proud.
Proverbs 16:20 Whoever gives thought to the word who trusts in the LORD.
Proverbs 16:21 The wise of heart is called discerning, and sweetness of speech increases persuasiveness.
Proverbs 16:22 Good sense is a fountain of life to him who has it, but the instruction of fools is folly.
Proverbs 16:23  The heart of the wise makes his speech judicious and adds persuasiveness to his lips.
Proverbs 16:24  health to the body.
Proverbs 16:25 There is a way that seems right to a man, but its end is the way to death.
Proverbs 16:26 A worker's appetite works for him; his mouth urges him on.
Proverbs 16:27  a scorching fire.
Proverbs 16:28  separates close friends.
Proverbs 16:29 A man of violence entices his neighbor and leads him in a way that is not good.
Proverbs 16:30 Whoever winks his eyes plans purses his lips brings evil to pass.
Proverbs 16:31  is gained in a righteous life.
Proverbs 16:32  Whoever is slow to anger is better than the mighty, and he who rules his spirit than he who takes a city.
Proverbs 16:33  from the LORD.
Proverbs 17:1   with strife.
Proverbs 17:2 A servant who deals wisely will rule over will share the inheritance as one of the brothers.
Proverbs 17:3 and the LORD tests hearts.
Proverbs 17:4 An evildoer listens to wicked lips, and a liar gives ear to a mischievous tongue.
Proverbs 17:5 Whoever mocks the poor unpunished.
Proverbs 17:6  the crown of the aged, and the glory of children is their fathers.
Proverbs 17:7 Fine speech is not false speech to a prince.
Proverbs 17:8   stone in the eyes of the one who gives it; wherever he turns he prospers.
Proverbs 17:9 Whoever separates close friends.
Proverbs 17:10 A rebuke goes deeper into a man of understanding than a hundred blows into a fool.
Proverbs 17:11 An evil man seeks only rebellion, and a cruel messenger will be sent against him.
Proverbs 17:12 Let a man meetrather than a fool in his folly.
Proverbs 17:13 If anyoneevil will not depart from his house.
Proverbs 17:14 The beginning of strife is like letting out water, so quit before the quarrel breaks out.
Proverbs 17:15 He who condemns the righteous are both alike an abomination to the LORD.
Proverbs 17:16 Why should a fool have money in his hand to buy wisdom when he has no sense?
Proverbs 17:17  A friend loves at all times, and a brother is born for adversity.
Proverbs 17:18 One who lacks sense gives a pledge and puts up security in the presence of his neighbor.
Proverbs 17:19 Whoever loves transgression loves strife; he who makes his door high seeks destruction.
Proverbs 17:20  A man of crooked heart does not discover good, and one with a dishonest tongue falls into calamity.
Proverbs 17:21 He who sires a fool gets himself sorrow, and the father of a fool has no joy.
Proverbs 17:22  dries up the bones.
Proverbs 17:23 The wicked accepts pervert the ways of justice.
Proverbs 17:24  The discerning sets his face toward wisdom, but the eyes of a fool are on the ends of the earth.
Proverbs 17:25  her who bore him.
Proverbs 17:26  To impose a fine on a righteous man is not good, nor to strike the noble for their uprightness.
Proverbs 17:27 Whoever restrains his words has knowledge, and he who has a cool spirit is a man of understanding.
Proverbs 17:28 Even a fool who keeps silent is considered wise; when he closes his lips, he is deemed intelligent.
Proverbs 18:1 Whoever isolates himself seeks his own desire; he breaks out against all sound judgment.
Proverbs 18:2 A fool takes no pleasure in understanding, but only in expressing his opinion.
Proverbs 18:3 When wickedness comes, contempt comes also, and with dishonor comes disgrace.
Proverbs 18:4 The words of a man's mouth are deep waters; the fountain of wisdom is a bubbling brook.
Proverbs 18:5 It is not good to deprive the righteous of justice.
Proverbs 18:6 A fool's lips walk into a fight, and his mouth invites a beating.
Proverbs 18:7  A fool's mouth is his ruin, and his lips are a snare to his soul.
Proverbs 18:8  the inner parts of the body.
Proverbs 18:9 Whoever is slack in his work is a brother to him who destroys.
Proverbs 18:10  is safe.
Proverbs 18:11  A rich man's wealth is his strong city, and like a high wall in his imagination.
Proverbs 18:12  humility comes before honor.
Proverbs 18:13 If one gives an answer before he hears, it is his folly and shame.
Proverbs 18:14 A man's spirit will endure sickness, but a crushed spirit who can bear?
Proverbs 18:15 An intelligent heart acquires knowledge, and the ear of the wise seeks knowledge.
Proverbs 18:16 A man's gift makes room for him and brings him before the great.
Proverbs 18:17 The one who states his case first seems right, until the other comes and examines him.
Proverbs 18:18  The lot puts an end to quarrels and decides between powerful contenders.
Proverbs 18:19 A brother offended is more unyielding than a strong city, and quarreling is like the bars of a castle.
Proverbs 18:20  From the fruit of a man's mouth his stomach is satisfied; he is satisfied by the yield of his lips.
Proverbs 18:21  Death and life are in the power of the tongue, and those who love it will eat its fruits.
Proverbs 18:22 He who finds from the LORD.
Proverbs 18:23 The poor use entreaties, but the rich answer roughly.
Proverbs 18:24 A man of many companions may come to ruin, but there is a friend who sticks closer than a brother.
Proverbs 19:1  walks in his integrity than one who is crooked in speech and is a fool.
Proverbs 19:2 Desire makes haste with his feet misses his way.
Proverbs 19:3 When a man's folly rages against the LORD.
Proverbs 19:4 but a poor man is deserted by his friend.
Proverbs 19:5  breathes out lies will not escape.
Proverbs 19:6 Many seek the favor of a generous man, gifts.
Proverbs 19:7
Proverbs 19:8  discover good.
Proverbs 19:9  breathes out lies will perish.
Proverbs 19:10  a slave to rule over princes.
Proverbs 19:11  Good sense makes one slow to anger, and it is his glory to overlook an offense.
Proverbs 19:12 A king's wrath is like dew on the grass.
Proverbs 19:13  a continual dripping of rain.
Proverbs 19:14  from the LORD.
Proverbs 19:15  an idle person will suffer hunger.
Proverbs 19:16 Whoever keeps the commandment keeps his life; he who despises his ways will die.
Proverbs 19:17  deed.
Proverbs 19:18  putting him to death.
Proverbs 19:19 A man of great wrath will pay the penalty, for if you deliver him, you will only have to do it again.
Proverbs 19:20 Listen to advice and accept instruction, that you may gain wisdom in the future.
Proverbs 19:21  that will stand.
Proverbs 19:22 What is desired in a man is steadfast love, and a poor man is better than a liar.
Proverbs 19:23 The fear of the LORD not be visited by harm.
Proverbs 19:24  the dish and will not even bring it back to his mouth.
Proverbs 19:25 reprove a man of understanding, and he will gain knowledge.
Proverbs 19:26 He who does violence to his father and chases away his mother is a son who brings shame and reproach.
Proverbs 19:27 Cease to hear instruction, my son, and you will stray from the words of knowledge.
Proverbs 19:28 A worthless witness mocks at justice, and the mouth of the wicked devours iniquity.
Proverbs 19:29 Condemnation is ready for beating for the backs of fools.
Proverbs 20:1
Proverbs 20:2 The terror of a king is like forfeits his life.
Proverbs 20:3 It is an honor for a man to keep aloof from strife, but every fool will be quarreling.
Proverbs 20:4 he will seek at harvest and have nothing.
Proverbs 20:5 The purpose in a man's heart is like deep water, but a man of understanding will draw it out.
Proverbs 20:6 Many a man a faithful man who can find?
Proverbs 20:7 The righteous whoblessed are his children after him!
Proverbs 20:8 winnows all evil with his eyes.
Proverbs 20:9  Who can say, “I have made my heart pure; I am clean from my sin”?
Proverbs 20:10   weights and unequal measures are both alike an abomination to the LORD.
Proverbs 20:11 Even a child
Proverbs 20:12 the LORD has made them both.
Proverbs 20:13  plenty of bread.
Proverbs 20:14 “Bad, bad,” says the buyer, but when he goes away, then he boasts.
Proverbs 20:15 There is gold and abundance ofbut the lips of knowledge are a precious jewel.
Proverbs 20:16
Proverbs 20:17  gravel.
Proverbs 20:18  wage war.
Proverbs 20:19 Whoever
Proverbs 20:20 his lamp will be put out in utter darkness.
Proverbs 20:21  An inheritance gained hastily in the beginning will not be blessed in the end.
Proverbs 20:22 Do not say,wait for the LORD, and he will deliver you.
Proverbs 20:23  false scales are not good.
Proverbs 20:24 A man's steps are from the LORD; how then can man understand his way?
Proverbs 20:25 It is a snare to say rashly, “It is holy,” and to reflect only after making vows.
Proverbs 20:26 A wise king the wheel over them.
Proverbs 20:27  his innermost parts.
Proverbs 20:28  throne is upheld.
Proverbs 20:29 The glory of young men is their strength, but the splendor of old men is their gray hair.
Proverbs 20:30  the innermost parts.
Proverbs 21:1 The king's heart is a stream of water in the hand of the LORD; he turns it wherever he will.
Proverbs 21:2  weighs the heart.
Proverbs 21:3  To do righteousness and justice is more acceptable to the LORD than sacrifice.
Proverbs 21:4   of the wicked, are sin.
Proverbs 21:5 The plans of only to poverty.
Proverbs 21:6
Proverbs 21:7 The violence of the wicked will sweep them away, because they refuse to do what is just.
Proverbs 21:8 The way of the guilty is crooked, but the conduct of the pure is upright.
Proverbs 21:9 It is better to live in a corner of the housetop than in a house shared with a quarrelsome wife.
Proverbs 21:10 The soul of the wicked desires evil; his neighbor finds no mercy in his eyes.
Proverbs 21:11 When a scoffer is punished, the simple becomes wise; when a wise man is instructed, he gains knowledge.
Proverbs 21:12 The Righteous One observes the house of the wicked; he throws the wicked down to ruin.
Proverbs 21:13  Whoever closes his ear to the cry of the poor will himself call out and not be answered.
Proverbs 21:14   strong wrath.
Proverbs 21:15 When justice is done, it is a joy to the righteous but terror to evildoers.
Proverbs 21:16 One who wanders from the way of good sense will rest in the assembly of the dead.
Proverbs 21:17 Whoever loves pleasure will be a poor man; he who loves wine and oil will not be rich.
Proverbs 21:18  ransom for the righteous, and the traitor for the upright.
Proverbs 21:19 It is better to live in a desert land than with a quarrelsome and fretful woman.
Proverbs 21:20  devours it.
Proverbs 21:21 Whoever life, righteousness, and honor.
Proverbs 21:22  A wise man scales the city of the mighty and brings down the stronghold in which they trust.
Proverbs 21:23  trouble.
Proverbs 21:24  “Scoffer” is the name of the arrogant, haughty man who acts with arrogant pride.
Proverbs 21:25 The desire of the sluggard kills him, for his hands refuse to labor.
Proverbs 21:26 All day long he craves and craves, but the righteous gives and does not hold back.
Proverbs 21:27  when he brings it with evil intent.
Proverbs 21:28  A false witness will perish, but the word of a man who hears will endure.
Proverbs 21:29 A wicked man puts on a bold face, but the upright  his ways.
Proverbs 21:30  No wisdom, no understanding, no counsel can avail against the LORD.
Proverbs 21:31  the victory belongs to the LORD.
Proverbs 22:1  A good name is to be chosen rather than great riches, and favor is better than silver or gold.
Proverbs 22:2  the Maker of them all.
Proverbs 22:3  The prudent sees danger and hides himself, but the simple go on and suffer for it.
Proverbs 22:4 The reward for humility and fear of the LORD is
Proverbs 22:5  guards his soul will keep far from them.
Proverbs 22:6  Train up a child in the way he should go; even when he is old he will not depart from it.
Proverbs 22:7  The rich rules over the poor, and the borrower is the slave of the lender.
Proverbs 22:8 Whoever the rod of his fury will fail.
Proverbs 22:9  shares his bread with the poor.
Proverbs 22:10  quarreling and abuse will cease.
Proverbs 22:11 He who will have the king as his friend.
Proverbs 22:12 The eyes of the LORD keep watch over knowledge, but he overthrows the words of the traitor.
Proverbs 22:13  The sluggard says, “There is a lion outside! I shall be killed in the streets!”
Proverbs 22:14 The mouth ofhe with whom the LORD is angry will fall into it.
Proverbs 22:15 Folly is bound up in the heart of a child, but the rod of discipline drives it far from him.
Proverbs 22:16 Whoever oppresses the poor to increase his own wealth, or gives to the rich, will only come to poverty.
Proverbs 22:17 and apply your heart to my knowledge,
Proverbs 22:18 for it will be pleasant if you keep them within you, if all of them are ready on your lips.
Proverbs 22:19 That your trust may be in the LORD, I have made them known to you today, even to you.
Proverbs 22:20 Have I not written for you thirty sayings of counsel and knowledge,
Proverbs 22:21 to make you know what is right and true, that you may give a true answer to those who sent you?
Proverbs 22:22  the gate,
Proverbs 22:23 for the LORD will plead their cause and rob of life those who rob them.
Proverbs 22:24 Make no friendship with a man given to anger, nor go with a wrathful man,
Proverbs 22:25 lest you learn his ways and entangle yourself in a snare.
Proverbs 22:26 Be not one of those who give pledges, who put up security for debts.
Proverbs 22:27 If you have nothing with which to pay, why should your bed be taken from under you?
Proverbs 22:28 Do not move the ancient landmark that your fathers have set.
Proverbs 22:29 Do you see a man skillful in his work? He will stand before kings; he will not stand before obscure men.
Proverbs 23:1 When you sit down to eat with a ruler, observe carefully what  is before you,
Proverbs 23:2 and put a knife to your throat if you are given to appetite.
Proverbs 23:3  Do not desire his delicacies, for they are deceptive food.
Proverbs 23:4 be discerning enough to desist.
Proverbs 23:5 When your eyes light on it, it is gone, for suddenly it sprouts wings, flying like an eagle toward heaven.
Proverbs 23:6 do not desire his delicacies,
Proverbs 23:7 for he is like one who is inwardly calculating. heart is not with you.
Proverbs 23:8 You will vomit up the morsels that you have eaten, and waste your pleasant words.
Proverbs 23:9 Do not speak in the hearing of a fool, for he will despise the good sense of your words.
Proverbs 23:10  Do not move an ancient landmark or enter the fields of the fatherless,
Proverbs 23:11 for their plead their cause against you.
Proverbs 23:12 Apply your heart to instruction and your ear to words of knowledge.
Proverbs 23:13 Do not withholdif you strike him with a rod, he will not die.
Proverbs 23:14 If you strike him with the rod, you will save his soul from Sheol.
Proverbs 23:15  My son, if your heart is wise, my heart too will be glad.
Proverbs 23:16 My what is right.
Proverbs 23:17 Let not your heart the fear of the LORD all the day.
Proverbs 23:18 Surely hope will not be cut off.
Proverbs 23:19 Hear, my son, and direct your heart in the way.
Proverbs 23:20 Be not among gluttonous eaters of meat,
Proverbs 23:21 for the drunkard and the glutton will come to poverty, and slumber will clothe them with rags.
Proverbs 23:22 and do not despise your mother when she is old.
Proverbs 23:23  Buy truth, and do not sell it; buy wisdom, instruction, and understanding.
Proverbs 23:24  The father of the righteous will greatly rejoice; he who fathers a wise son will be glad in him.
Proverbs 23:25  her who bore you rejoice.
Proverbs 23:26 My son, give me your heart, and let your eyes observe  my ways.
Proverbs 23:27 For a prostitute is well.
Proverbs 23:28  She lies in wait like a robber and increases the traitors among mankind.
Proverbs 23:29  redness of eyes?
Proverbs 23:30 Those who mixed wine.
Proverbs 23:31 Do not look at wine when it is red, when it sparkles in the cup and goes down smoothly.
Proverbs 23:32 In the end it bites like a serpent and stings like an adder.
Proverbs 23:33 Your eyes will see strange things, and your heart utter perverse things.
Proverbs 23:34 You will be like one who lies down in the midst of the sea, like one who lies on the top of a mast.
Proverbs 23:35 “They must have another drink.”
Proverbs 24:1 Be not with them,
Proverbs 24:2 for their hearts talk of trouble.
Proverbs 24:3 By wisdom a house is built, and by understanding it is established;
Proverbs 24:4 by knowledge the rooms are filled with all precious and pleasant riches.
Proverbs 24:5  A wise man is full of strength, and a man of knowledge enhances his might,
Proverbs 24:6 for by abundance of counselors there is victory.
Proverbs 24:7 Wisdom is the gate he does not open his mouth.
Proverbs 24:8 Whoever plans to do evil will be called a schemer.
Proverbs 24:9  the scoffer is an abomination to mankind.
Proverbs 24:10 If you faint in the day of adversity, your strength is small.
Proverbs 24:11  Rescue those who are being taken away to death; hold back those who are stumbling to the slaughter.
Proverbs 24:12 If you say, “Behold, we did not know this,”  according to his work?
Proverbs 24:13 My son, the drippings of the honeycomb are sweet to your taste.
Proverbs 24:14 Know that wisdom is such to your soul; if you find it, there will be a future, and your hope will not be cut off.
Proverbs 24:15  Lie not in wait as a wicked man against the dwelling of the righteous; do no violence to his home;
Proverbs 24:16  the wicked stumble in times of calamity.
Proverbs 24:17  Do not rejoice when your enemy falls, and let not your heart be glad when he stumbles,
Proverbs 24:18 lest the LORD see it and be displeased, and turn away his anger from him.
Proverbs 24:19  envious of the wicked,
Proverbs 24:20 for the evil man has nothe lamp of the wicked will be put out.
Proverbs 24:21 My son, fear the LORD and the king, and do not join with those who do otherwise,
Proverbs 24:22 for disaster will arise suddenly from them, and who knows the ruin that will come from them both?
Proverbs 24:23 These also are sayings ofPartiality in judging is not good.
Proverbs 24:24 Whoeverwill be cursed by peoples, abhorred by nations,
Proverbs 24:25 but those who rebuke the wicked will have delight, and a good blessing will come upon them.
Proverbs 24:26 Whoever gives an honest answer kisses the lips.
Proverbs 24:27  Prepare your work outside; get everything ready for yourself in the field, and after that build your house.
Proverbs 24:28  Be not a witness against your neighbor without cause, and do not deceive with your lips.
Proverbs 24:29 Do not say, “I will do to him as he has done to me; I will pay the man back for what he has done.”
Proverbs 24:30  lacking sense,
Proverbs 24:31 and behold, it was all overgrown with thorns; the ground was covered with nettles, and its stone wall was broken down.
Proverbs 24:32 Then I saw and considered it; I looked and received instruction.
Proverbs 24:33  A little sleep, a little slumber, a little folding of the hands to rest,
Proverbs 24:34 and poverty will come upon you like a robber, and want like an armed man.
Proverbs 25:1 These also are proverbs of Solomon which the men of Hezekiah king of Judah copied.
Proverbs 25:2 It is the glory of God to search things out.
Proverbs 25:3 As the heavens for height, and the earth for depth, so the heart of kings is unsearchable.
Proverbs 25:4 Take away the smith has material for a vessel;
Proverbs 25:5 take away throne will be established in righteousness.
Proverbs 25:6 Do not put yourself forward in the king's presence or stand in the place of the great,
Proverbs 25:7 for it is better to be told, “Come up here,” than to be put lower in the presence of a noble.  What your eyes have seen
Proverbs 25:8   what will you do in the end, when your neighbor puts you to shame?
Proverbs 25:9  Argue your case with your neighbor himself, and do not reveal another's secret,
Proverbs 25:10 lest he who hears you bring shame upon you, and your ill repute have no end.
Proverbs 25:11  A word fitly spoken is like apples of gold in a setting of silver.
Proverbs 25:12 Like a listening ear.
Proverbs 25:13 Like the cold of snow in the time of harvest is a faithful messenger to those who send him; he refreshes the soul of his masters.
Proverbs 25:14 Like boasts of a gift he does not give.
Proverbs 25:15 With patience a ruler may be persuaded, and a soft tongue will break a bone.
Proverbs 25:16 If you have only enough for you, lest you have your fill of it and vomit it.
Proverbs 25:17 Let your foot be seldom in your neighbor's house, lest he have his fill of you and hate you.
Proverbs 25:18 A man who a sword, or a sharp arrow.
Proverbs 25:19 Trusting in a treacherous man in time of trouble is like a bad tooth or a foot that slips.
Proverbs 25:20 Whoever sings songs to a heavy heart is like one who takes off a garment on a cold day, and like vinegar on soda.
Proverbs 25:21  If your enemy is hungry, give him bread to eat, and if he is thirsty, give him water to drink,
Proverbs 25:22 for you will heap burning coals on his head, and the LORD will reward you.
Proverbs 25:23 The north wind brings forth rain, and a backbiting tongue, angry looks.
Proverbs 25:24  It is better to live in a corner of the housetop than in a house shared with a quarrelsome wife.
Proverbs 25:25 Like cold water to good news from a far country.
Proverbs 25:26 Like a muddied spring or a polluted fountain is a righteous man who gives way before the wicked.
Proverbs 25:27 It is
Proverbs 25:28 A man a city broken into and left without walls.
Proverbs 26:1 Like snow in summer or not fitting for a fool.
Proverbs 26:2 Likea curse that is causeless does not alight.
Proverbs 26:3  a rod for the back of fools.
Proverbs 26:4  Answer not a fool according to his folly, lest you be like him yourself.
Proverbs 26:5  wise in his own eyes.
Proverbs 26:6 Whoever sends a message by the hand of a fool cuts off his own feet and drinks violence.
Proverbs 26:7 Like a lame man's legs, which hang useless, is a proverb in the mouth of fools.
Proverbs 26:8 Like one who binds the stone in the sling is one who gives honor to a fool.
Proverbs 26:9 Like a thorn that goes up into the hand of a drunkard is a proverb in the mouth of fools.
Proverbs 26:10 Like an archer who wounds everyone is one who hires a passing fool or drunkard.
Proverbs 26:11 Like a fool who repeats his folly.
Proverbs 26:12 Do you see a man who isThere is more hope for a fool than for him.
Proverbs 26:13  The sluggard says, “There is a lion in the road! There is a lion in the streets!”
Proverbs 26:14 As a door turns on its hinges, so does a sluggard on his bed.
Proverbs 26:15  The sluggard buries his hand in the dish; it wears him out to bring it back to his mouth.
Proverbs 26:16 The sluggard isthan seven men who can answer sensibly.
Proverbs 26:17 Whoever meddles in a quarrel not his own is like one who takes a passing dog by the ears.
Proverbs 26:18 Like a madman who throws firebrands, arrows, and death
Proverbs 26:19 is the man who deceives his neighbor and says, “I am only joking!”
Proverbs 26:20 For lack of wood the fire goes out, and where there is no quarreling ceases.
Proverbs 26:21 As charcoal to hot embers and wood to fire, so is a quarrelsome man for kindling strife.
Proverbs 26:22  a whisperer are like delicious morsels; they go down into the inner parts of the body.
Proverbs 26:23   covering an earthen vessel are fervent lips with an evil heart.
Proverbs 26:24 Whoever hates disguises himself with his lips and harbors deceit in his heart;
Proverbs 26:25  seven abominations in his heart;
Proverbs 26:26 though his hatred be covered with deception, his wickedness will be exposed in the assembly.
Proverbs 26:27  Whoever digs a pit will fall into it, and a stone will come back on him who starts it rolling.
Proverbs 26:28 A lying tongue hates its victims, and a flattering mouth works ruin.
Proverbs 27:1 Do not boast about tomorrow, for you do not know what a day may bring.
Proverbs 27:2 Let another praise you, and not your own mouth; a stranger, and not your own lips.
Proverbs 27:3 A stone is heavy, and sand is weighty, but a fool's provocation is heavier than both.
Proverbs 27:4 Wrath is cruel, anger is overwhelming, but who can stand before jealousy?
Proverbs 27:5  Better is open rebuke than hidden love.
Proverbs 27:6 Faithful are the wounds of a friend; profuse are the kisses of an enemy.
Proverbs 27:7 One who is full loathes honey, but to one who is hungry everything bitter is sweet.
Proverbs 27:8 Like a bird that strays from its nest is a man who strays from his home.
Proverbs 27:9
Proverbs 27:10 Do not forsake your friend andBetter is a neighbor who is near than a brother who is far away.
Proverbs 27:11  answer him who reproaches me.
Proverbs 27:12  the simple go on and suffer for it.
Proverbs 27:13
Proverbs 27:14 Whoever blesses his neighbor with a loud voice, rising early in the morning, will be counted as cursing.
Proverbs 27:15  A continual dripping on a rainy day and a quarrelsome wife are alike;
Proverbs 27:16 to restrain her is to restrain the wind or to grasp  oil in one's right hand.
Proverbs 27:17 Iron sharpens iron, and one man sharpens another.
Proverbs 27:18  guards his master will be honored.
Proverbs 27:19 As in water face reflects face, so the heart of man reflects the man.
Proverbs 27:20  never satisfied are the eyes of man.
Proverbs 27:21  The crucible is for silver, and the furnace is for gold, and a man is tested by his praise.
Proverbs 27:22  Crush a fool in a mortar with a pestle along with crushed grain, yet his folly will not depart from him.
Proverbs 27:23  give attention to your herds,
Proverbs 27:24 for riches do not last forever; and does a crown endure to all generations?
Proverbs 27:25  When the grass is gone and the new growth appears and the vegetation of the mountains is gathered,
Proverbs 27:26  the lambs will provide your clothing, and the goats the price of a field.
Proverbs 27:27  There will be enough goats' milk for your food, for the food of your household and maintenance for your girls.
Proverbs 28:1  the righteous are bold as a lion.
Proverbs 28:2 When a land transgresses, it has many rulers, but with a man of understanding and knowledge, its stability will long continue.
Proverbs 28:3  A poor man who oppresses the poor is a beating rain that leaves no food.
Proverbs 28:4 Those who forsake the law strive against them.
Proverbs 28:5 Evil men understand it completely.
Proverbs 28:6  crooked in his ways.
Proverbs 28:7 The one who keeps the law is a son with understanding, but a companion of gluttons shames his father.
Proverbs 28:8 Whoever multiplies his wealth generous to the poor.
Proverbs 28:9 If one turns away his ear from hearing the law, even his prayer is an abomination.
Proverbs 28:10 Whoever misleads the upright into an evil way  will have a goodly inheritance.
Proverbs 28:11 A rich man is wise in his will find him out.
Proverbs 28:12 When the wicked rise, people hide themselves.
Proverbs 28:13 Whoever confesses and forsakes them will obtain mercy.
Proverbs 28:14 Blessed is the one who hardens his heart will fall into calamity.
Proverbs 28:15 Like a wicked ruler over a poor people.
Proverbs 28:16 A ruler who lacks understanding is a cruel oppressor, but he who hates unjust gain will prolong his days.
Proverbs 28:17 If one is burdened with  let no one help him.
Proverbs 28:18  walks in integrity will be delivered, but he who is crooked in his ways will suddenly fall.
Proverbs 28:19  Whoever works his land will have plenty of bread, but he who follows worthless pursuits will have plenty of poverty.
Proverbs 28:20 A faithful man will abound with blessings, but whoever hastens to be rich will not go unpunished.
Proverbs 28:21 To show a piece of bread a man will do wrong.
Proverbs 28:22 A poverty will come upon him.
Proverbs 28:23 Whoever he who flatters with his tongue.
Proverbs 28:24 Whoever robs his father or his mother and says, “That is no transgression,” is a companion to a man who destroys.
Proverbs 28:25 A greedy man be enriched.
Proverbs 28:26 Whoever trusts in his own mind is a fool, but he who walks in wisdom will be delivered.
Proverbs 28:27 Whoever hides his eyes will get many a curse.
Proverbs 28:28 When people hide themselves, but when they perish, the righteous increase.
Proverbs 29:1  beyond healing.
Proverbs 29:2 When the wicked rule, the people groan.
Proverbs 29:3 He who squanders his wealth.
Proverbs 29:4 By justice a king  tears it down.
Proverbs 29:5  a net for his feet.
Proverbs 29:6 An evil man is sings and rejoices.
Proverbs 29:7 A righteous man understand such knowledge.
Proverbs 29:8  Scoffers set a city aflame, but the wise turn away wrath.
Proverbs 29:9 If a wise man has an argument with a fool, the fool only rages and laughs, and there is no quiet.
Proverbs 29:10 Bloodthirsty men
Proverbs 29:11 A fool gives full vent to his spirit, but a wise man quietly holds it back.
Proverbs 29:12 If a ruler listens to falsehood, all his officials will be wicked.
Proverbs 29:13 The poor man and the oppressor gives light to the eyes of both.
Proverbs 29:14 If a king be established forever.
Proverbs 29:15  brings shame to his mother.
Proverbs 29:16 When the wicked increase, transgression increases, but the righteous will look upon their downfall.
Proverbs 29:17  Discipline your son, and he will give you rest; he will give delight to your heart.
Proverbs 29:18 Where keeps the law.
Proverbs 29:19 By mere words a servant is not disciplined, for though he understands, he will not respond.
Proverbs 29:20 Do you see a man who is hasty in his words? There is more hope for a fool than for him.
Proverbs 29:21 Whoever pampers his servant from childhood will in the end find him his heir.
Proverbs 29:22  A man of wrath stirs up strife, and one given to anger causes much transgression.
Proverbs 29:23 but he who is lowly in spirit will obtain honor.
Proverbs 29:24 The partner of a thiefhe hears the curse, but discloses nothing.
Proverbs 29:25  The fear of man lays a snare, but whoever trusts in the LORD is safe.
Proverbs 29:26 Many gets justice.
Proverbs 29:27  An unjust man is an abomination to the righteous, but one whose way is straight is an abomination to the wicked.
Proverbs 30:1 The words of Agur son of Jakeh. The oracle.
Proverbs 30:2 Surely I am too stupid to be a man. I have not the understanding of a man.
Proverbs 30:3 I have not learned wisdom, nor have I knowledge of the Holy One.
Proverbs 30:4 Who hasWhat is his name, and what is his son's name? Surely you know!
Proverbs 30:5  a shield to those who take refuge in him.
Proverbs 30:6  Do not add to his words, lest he rebuke you and you be found a liar.
Proverbs 30:7 Two things I ask of you; deny them not to me before I die:
Proverbs 30:8 Remove far from me falsehood and lying; give me neither poverty nor riches; feed me with the food that is needful for me,
Proverbs 30:9 lest I beand profane the name of my God.
Proverbs 30:10 lest he curse you, and you be held guilty.
Proverbs 30:11 There are those curse their fathers and do not bless their mothers.
Proverbs 30:12 There are those who are clean in their own eyes but are not washed of their filth.
Proverbs 30:13 There are those — how lofty are their eyes, how high their eyelids lift!
Proverbs 30:14 There are those whose teeth are devour the poor from off the earth, the needy from among mankind.
Proverbs 30:15 The leech has two daughters: Give and Give.four never say, “Enough”:
Proverbs 30:16  the barren womb, the land never satisfied with water, and the fire that never says, “Enough.”
Proverbs 30:17 The eye that the ravens of the valley and eaten by the vultures.
Proverbs 30:18 four I do not understand:
Proverbs 30:19 the way of an eagle in the sky, the way of a serpent on a rock, the way of a ship on the high seas, and the way of a man with a virgin.
Proverbs 30:20 This is the way of an adulteress: she eats and wipes her mouth and says, “I have done no wrong.”
Proverbs 30:21 Under four it cannot bear up:
Proverbs 30:22  filled with food;
Proverbs 30:23  gets a husband, and a maidservant when she displaces her mistress.
Proverbs 30:24  Four things on earth are small, but they are exceedingly wise:
Proverbs 30:25  the ants are a people not strong, yet they provide their food in the summer;
Proverbs 30:26  the rock badgers are a people not mighty, yet they make their homes in the cliffs;
Proverbs 30:27 the locusts have no rank;
Proverbs 30:28 the lizard you can take in your hands, yet it is in kings' palaces.
Proverbs 30:29 four are stately in their stride:
Proverbs 30:30 the lion, which is mightiest among beasts and does not turn back before any;
Proverbs 30:31 the
Proverbs 30:32 If you have been foolish, exalting yourself, or if you have been devising evil, put your hand on your mouth.
Proverbs 30:33 For pressing milk produces curds, pressing the nose produces blood, and pressing anger produces strife.
Proverbs 31:1 The words of King Lemuel. An oracle that his mother taught him:
Proverbs 31:2 What are you doing, my son? son of my vows?
Proverbs 31:3 Do who destroy kings.
Proverbs 31:4  strong drink,
Proverbs 31:5 lest they drink and forget what has been decreed and pervert the rights of all the afflicted.
Proverbs 31:6 Give strong drink to the one who
Proverbs 31:7  let them drink and forget their poverty and remember their misery no more.
Proverbs 31:8
Proverbs 31:9 Open your mouth, the poor and needy.
Proverbs 31:10  jewels.
Proverbs 31:11 The heart of her husband trusts in her, and he will have no lack of gain.
Proverbs 31:12 She does him good, and not harm, all the days of her life.
Proverbs 31:13 She seeks wool and flax, and works with willing hands.
Proverbs 31:14 She is like the ships of the merchant; she brings her food from afar.
Proverbs 31:15 She provides food for her household and portions for her maidens.
Proverbs 31:16 She considers a field and buys it; with the fruit of her hands she plants a vineyard.
Proverbs 31:17 She  with strength and makes her arms strong.
Proverbs 31:18 She perceives that her merchandise is profitable. Her lamp does not go out at night.
Proverbs 31:19 She puts her hands to the distaff, and her hands hold the spindle.
Proverbs 31:20 She the needy.
Proverbs 31:21 She is not afraid of snow for her household, for all her household are clothed in
Proverbs 31:22 She makes purple.
Proverbs 31:23 Her husband is known in the gates when he sits among the elders of the land.
Proverbs 31:24 She makes linen garments and sells them; she delivers sashes to the merchant.
Proverbs 31:25  Strength and dignity are her clothing, and she laughs at the time to come.
Proverbs 31:26 She opens her mouth with wisdom, and the teaching of kindness is on her tongue.
Proverbs 31:27 She looks well to the ways of her household and does not eat the bread of idleness.
Proverbs 31:28 Her children rise up and call her blessed; her husband also, and he praises her:
Proverbs 31:29 “Many excellently, but you surpass them all.”
Proverbs 31:30  Charm is deceitful, and beauty is vain, but a woman who fears the LORD is to be praised.
Proverbs 31:31 Give her of the fruit of her hands, and let her works praise her in the gates.
Ecclesiastes 1:1 The words of king in Jerusalem.
Ecclesiastes 1:2  All is vanity.
Ecclesiastes 1:3  does man gain by all the toil at which he toils under the sun?
Ecclesiastes 1:4 A generation goes, and a generation comes, but the earth remains forever.
Ecclesiastes 1:5   to the place where it rises.
Ecclesiastes 1:6  The wind blows to the south and goes around to the north; around and around goes the wind, and on its circuits the wind returns.
Ecclesiastes 1:7 All streams run to the sea, but the sea is not full; to the place where the streams flow, there they flow again.
Ecclesiastes 1:8 All things are full of weariness; a man cannot utter it; the eye is not satisfied with seeing, nor the ear filled with hearing.
Ecclesiastes 1:9  What has been is what will be, and what has been done is what will be done, and there is nothing new under the sun.
Ecclesiastes 1:10 Is there a thing of which it is said, “See, this is new”? It has been already in the ages before us.
Ecclesiastes 1:11 There is no  yet to be among those who come after.
Ecclesiastes 1:12 I the Preacher have been king over Israel in Jerusalem.
Ecclesiastes 1:13 And I business that God has given to the children of man to be busy with.
Ecclesiastes 1:14 I have seen everything that is done under the sun, and behold, all is
Ecclesiastes 1:15  What is crooked cannot be made straight, and what is lacking cannot be counted.
Ecclesiastes 1:16 I said in my heart, “I have acquired great wisdom, surpassing all who were over Jerusalem before me, and my heart has had great experience of wisdom and knowledge.”
Ecclesiastes 1:17 And I a striving after wind.
Ecclesiastes 1:18 For in much wisdom is much vexation, and he who increases knowledge increases sorrow.
Ecclesiastes 2:1 I
Ecclesiastes 2:2 I said of laughter, “It is mad,” and of pleasure, “What use is it?”
Ecclesiastes 2:3 I folly, till I might see what was good for the children of man to do under heaven during the few days of their life.
Ecclesiastes 2:4 I made great works. I vineyards for myself.
Ecclesiastes 2:5 I made myself gardens and parks, and planted in them all kinds of fruit trees.
Ecclesiastes 2:6 I made myself pools from which to water the forest of growing trees.
Ecclesiastes 2:7 I bought male and female slaves, and had herds and flocks, more than any who had been before me in Jerusalem.
Ecclesiastes 2:8 I also gathered for myself silver and  the delight of the sons of man.
Ecclesiastes 2:9 So I became great and wisdom remained with me.
Ecclesiastes 2:10 And whatever my eyes desired I did not keep from them. I kept my heart from no pleasure, for my heart reward for all my toil.
Ecclesiastes 2:11 Then I considered all that my hands had done and the toil I had expended in doing it, and behold, all was to be gained under the sun.
Ecclesiastes 2:12  what has already been done.
Ecclesiastes 2:13 Then I saw that there is more gain in wisdom than in folly, as there is more gain in light than in darkness.
Ecclesiastes 2:14  same event happens to all of them.
Ecclesiastes 2:15 Then I said in my heart, “What happens to the fool will happen to me also. Why then have I been so very wise?” And I said in my heart that this also is vanity.
Ecclesiastes 2:16 For of the wise as of the fool there is How the wise dies just like the fool!
Ecclesiastes 2:17 So I hated life, because what is done under the sun was grievous to me, for all is vanity and a striving after wind.
Ecclesiastes 2:18 I hated leave it to the man who will come after me,
Ecclesiastes 2:19 and who knows whether he will be wise or a fool? Yet he will be master of all for which I toiled and used my wisdom under the sun. This also is vanity.
Ecclesiastes 2:20 So I over all the toil of my labors under the sun,
Ecclesiastes 2:21 because sometimes a person who has toiled with wisdom and knowledge and skill must leave everything to be enjoyed by someone who did not toil for it. This also is vanity and a great evil.
Ecclesiastes 2:22 What has a man from all the toil and striving of heart with which he toils beneath the sun?
Ecclesiastes 2:23 For work is a vexation. Even in the night his heart does not rest. This also is vanity.
Ecclesiastes 2:24  from the hand of God,
Ecclesiastes 2:25 for apart from him  who can eat or who can have enjoyment?
Ecclesiastes 2:26 For to the one who pleases him This also is vanity and a striving after wind.
Ecclesiastes 3:1 For everything there is a season, and a time for every matter under heaven:
Ecclesiastes 3:2 a time to be born, and a time to die; a time to plant, and a time to pluck up what is planted;
Ecclesiastes 3:3 a time to kill, and a time to heal; a time to break down, and a time to build up;
Ecclesiastes 3:4 a time to dance;
Ecclesiastes 3:5 a time to refrain from embracing;
Ecclesiastes 3:6 a time to seek, and a time to cast away;
Ecclesiastes 3:7 a time to keep silence, and a time to speak;
Ecclesiastes 3:8 a time to love, and a time to hate; a time for war, and a time for peace.
Ecclesiastes 3:9 What gain has the worker from his toil?
Ecclesiastes 3:10 I have seen God has given to the children of man to be busy with.
Ecclesiastes 3:11 He has find out what God has done from the beginning to the end.
Ecclesiastes 3:12 I perceived that there is do good as long as they live;
Ecclesiastes 3:13 also God's gift to man.
Ecclesiastes 3:14 I perceived that whatever God does endures forever; nothing can be added to it, nor anything taken from it. God has done it, so that people fear before him.
Ecclesiastes 3:15 That which is,
Ecclesiastes 3:16 Moreover, there was wickedness, and in the place of righteousness, even there was wickedness.
Ecclesiastes 3:17 I said in my heart, a time for every matter and for every work.
Ecclesiastes 3:18 I said in my heart with regard to the children of man that God is testing them that they may see that they themselves are but beasts.
Ecclesiastes 3:19
Ecclesiastes 3:20 All go to one place. All are from the dust, and to dust all return.
Ecclesiastes 3:21 Who knows whether the spirit of man goes upward and the spirit of the beast goes down into the earth?
Ecclesiastes 3:22 So I saw that there is what will be after him?
Ecclesiastes 4:1  no one to comfort them! On the side of their oppressors there was power, and there was no one to comfort them.
Ecclesiastes 4:2 And I thought the dead who are already dead more fortunate than the living who are still alive.
Ecclesiastes 4:3 But better than both is he who has not yet been and has not seen the evil deeds that are done under the sun.
Ecclesiastes 4:4 Then I saw that all toil and all skill in work come from a man's envy of his neighbor. This also is  and a striving after wind.
Ecclesiastes 4:5 The fool eats his own flesh.
Ecclesiastes 4:6  quietness than two hands full of toil and a striving after wind.
Ecclesiastes 4:7  Again, I saw vanity under the sun:
Ecclesiastes 4:8 one person who has no other, either son or brother, yet there is no end to all his toil, and his business.
Ecclesiastes 4:9 Two are better than one, because they have a good reward for their toil.
Ecclesiastes 4:10 For if they fall, one will lift up his fellow. But woe to him who is alone when he falls and has not another to lift him up!
Ecclesiastes 4:11 Again, if two lie together, they keep warm, but how can one keep warm alone?
Ecclesiastes 4:12 And though a man might prevail against one who is alone, two will withstand him — a threefold cord is not quickly broken.
Ecclesiastes 4:13 Better was to take advice.
Ecclesiastes 4:14 For he went from prison to the throne, though in his own kingdom he had been born poor.
Ecclesiastes 4:15 I saw all the living who move about under the sun, along with that  place.
Ecclesiastes 4:16 There was no end of all the people, all of whom he led. Yet those who come later will not rejoice in him. Surely this also is vanity and a striving after wind.
Ecclesiastes 5:1  offer the sacrifice of fools, for they do not know that they are doing evil.
Ecclesiastes 5:2  let your words be few.
Ecclesiastes 5:3 For a dream comes with much business, and a fool's voice with many words.
Ecclesiastes 5:4 When Pay what you vow.
Ecclesiastes 5:5  It is better that you should not vow than that you should vow and not pay.
Ecclesiastes 5:6 Let not your mouth lead you a mistake. Why should God be angry at your voice and destroy the work of your hands?
Ecclesiastes 5:7 For when dreams increase and words grow many, there is vanity; God is the one you must fear.
Ecclesiastes 5:8  for the high official is watched by a higher, and there are yet higher ones over them.
Ecclesiastes 5:9 But this is gain for a land in every way: a king committed to cultivated fields.
Ecclesiastes 5:10 He who loves money will not be satisfied with money, nor he who loves wealth with his income; this also is vanity.
Ecclesiastes 5:11 When goods increase, they increase who eat them, and what advantage has their owner but to see them with his eyes?
Ecclesiastes 5:12 Sweet is the sleep of a laborer, whether he eats little or much, but the full stomach of the rich will not let him sleep.
Ecclesiastes 5:13  There is a grievous evil that I have seen under the sun: riches were kept by their owner to his hurt,
Ecclesiastes 5:14 and those riches were lost in a bad venture. And he is father of a son, but he has nothing in his hand.
Ecclesiastes 5:15  As he came from his mother's womb he shall go again, naked as he came, and shall take nothing for his toil that he may carry away in his hand.
Ecclesiastes 5:16 This also is a grievous evil: just as he came, so shall he go, and what toils for the wind?
Ecclesiastes 5:17 Moreover, all his days he eats in darkness in much vexation and sickness and anger.
Ecclesiastes 5:18 Behold, what I have seen to be lot.
Ecclesiastes 5:19 Everyone also to whom the gift of God.
Ecclesiastes 5:20 For he will not much remember the days of his life because God keeps him occupied with joy in his heart.
Ecclesiastes 6:1  There is an evil that I have seen under the sun, and it lies heavy on mankind:
Ecclesiastes 6:2 a man  it is a grievous evil.
Ecclesiastes 6:3 If a man fathers a hundred children and lives many years, so that a stillborn child is better off than he.
Ecclesiastes 6:4 For it comes in vanity and goes in darkness, and in darkness its name is covered.
Ecclesiastes 6:5 Moreover, it has not rest rather than he.
Ecclesiastes 6:6 Even though he should live a thousand years twice over, yet enjoy  no good — do not all go to the one place?
Ecclesiastes 6:7
Ecclesiastes 6:8 For what advantage has the wise man over the fool? And what does the poor man have who knows how to conduct himself before the living?
Ecclesiastes 6:9 Better vanity and a striving after wind.
Ecclesiastes 6:10 Whatever has come to be has dispute with one stronger than he.
Ecclesiastes 6:11 The more words, the more vanity, and what is the advantage to man?
Ecclesiastes 6:12 For who knows what is good for man while he lives the few days of his after him under the sun?
Ecclesiastes 7:1  the day of death than the day of birth.
Ecclesiastes 7:2 It is better to go to the house of mourning than to go to the house of feasting, for this is the end of all mankind, and the living will lay it to heart.
Ecclesiastes 7:3 Sorrow is better than laughter, for by sadness of face the heart is made glad.
Ecclesiastes 7:4 The heart of the wise is in the house of mourning, but the heart of fools is in the house of mirth.
Ecclesiastes 7:5 It is better for a man to hear the rebuke of the wise than to hear the song of fools.
Ecclesiastes 7:6
Ecclesiastes 7:7 Surely a bribe corrupts the heart.
Ecclesiastes 7:8 Better is the end of a thing than its beginning, and the patient in spirit is better than the proud in spirit.
Ecclesiastes 7:9   of fools.
Ecclesiastes 7:10 Say not, “Why were the former days better than these?” For it is not from wisdom that you ask this.
Ecclesiastes 7:11 Wisdom is good with an inheritance, an advantage to those who see the sun.
Ecclesiastes 7:12 For the protection of wisdom is like wisdom preserves the life of him who has it.
Ecclesiastes 7:13 Considerwho can make straight what he has made crooked?
Ecclesiastes 7:14  so that man may not find out anything that will be after him.
Ecclesiastes 7:15 In my prolongs his life in his evildoing.
Ecclesiastes 7:16 Be not overly righteous, and do not make yourself too wise. Why should you destroy yourself?
Ecclesiastes 7:17 Be not overly wicked, neither be a fool. Why should you die before your time?
Ecclesiastes 7:18 It is good that you should take hold of withhold not your hand, for the one who fears God shall come out from both of them.
Ecclesiastes 7:19  Wisdom gives strength to the wise man more than ten rulers who are in a city.
Ecclesiastes 7:20 Surely there is not a righteous man on earth who does good and never sins.
Ecclesiastes 7:21 Do not take to heart all the things that people say, lest you hear your servant cursing you.
Ecclesiastes 7:22 Your heart knows that many times you yourself have cursed others.
Ecclesiastes 7:23 All this I have tested by wisdom. I said, “I will be wise,” but it was far from me.
Ecclesiastes 7:24 That which has been is far off, and who can find it out?
Ecclesiastes 7:25  I turned my heart to know and to search out and to seek wisdom and the scheme of things, and to know the wickedness of folly and the foolishness that is madness.
Ecclesiastes 7:26 And I find something more the sinner is taken by her.
Ecclesiastes 7:27 Behold, this is what I found, says the Preacher, while adding one thing to another to find the scheme of things —
Ecclesiastes 7:28 which my soul has sought repeatedly, but I have not found. a woman among all these I have not found.
Ecclesiastes 7:29 See, this alone I found, that they have sought out many schemes.
Ecclesiastes 8:1 Who is like the wise? And who knows the interpretation of a thing?  the hardness of his face is changed.
Ecclesiastes 8:2 I say:
Ecclesiastes 8:3 Be not hasty to go from his presence. Do not take your stand in an evil cause, for he does whatever he pleases.
Ecclesiastes 8:4 For the word of the king is supreme, and who may say to him, “What are you doing?”
Ecclesiastes 8:5 Whoever keeps a command will know no evil thing, and the wise heart will know the proper time and the just way.
Ecclesiastes 8:6 For there is a time and a way  lies heavy on him.
Ecclesiastes 8:7 For he who can tell him how it will be?
Ecclesiastes 8:8 No man has power to discharge from war, nor will wickedness deliver those who are given to it.
Ecclesiastes 8:9  All this I observed while applying my heart to all that is done under the sun, when man had power over man to his hurt.
Ecclesiastes 8:10 Then I saw the wicked buried. They used to go in and out of
Ecclesiastes 8:11 Because the heart of the children of man is fully set to do evil.
Ecclesiastes 8:12 Though a sinner does evil a hundred times and those who fear God, because they fear before him.
Ecclesiastes 8:13 But it will a shadow, because he does not fear before God.
Ecclesiastes 8:14 There is a vanity that takes place on earth, that there are righteous people to whom it happens according to the deeds of the righteous. I said that this also is vanity.
Ecclesiastes 8:15 And I commend joy, for man eat and drink and be joyful, for this will go with him in his toil through the days of his life that God has given him under the sun.
Ecclesiastes 8:16 When I applied my heart to know wisdom, and to see day nor night do one's eyes see sleep,
Ecclesiastes 8:17 then I saw all the work of God, that he cannot find it out.
Ecclesiastes 9:1 But all this I laid to heart, examining it all, in the hand of God. Whether it is love or hate, man does not know; both are before him.
Ecclesiastes 9:2  swears is as he who shuns an oath.
Ecclesiastes 9:3 This is an evil in all that is done under the sun, that madness is in their hearts while they live, and after that they go to the dead.
Ecclesiastes 9:4 But he who is joined with all the living has hope, for a living dog is better than a dead lion.
Ecclesiastes 9:5 For the living know that they will die, but the memory of them is forgotten.
Ecclesiastes 9:6 Their love and their hate and their envy have already perished, and forever they have no more share in all that is done under the sun.
Ecclesiastes 9:7 Go, eat your bread with joy, and drink your wine with a merry heart, for God has already approved what you do.
Ecclesiastes 9:8  oil be lacking on your head.
Ecclesiastes 9:9 Enjoy life with the wife whom you love, all the days of your portion in life and in your toil at which you toil under the sun.
Ecclesiastes 9:10 Whatever your hand finds to do, for there is no work or thought or knowledge or wisdom in Sheol, to which you are going.
Ecclesiastes 9:11  happen to them all.
Ecclesiastes 9:12 For man snared at an evil time, when it suddenly falls upon them.
Ecclesiastes 9:13 I have also seen this example of wisdom under the sun, and it seemed great to me.
Ecclesiastes 9:14 There was a little city with few men in it, and a great king came against it and besieged it, building great siegeworks against it.
Ecclesiastes 9:15 But there was found in it wisdom delivered the city. Yet no one remembered that poor man.
Ecclesiastes 9:16 But I say that the poor man's wisdom is despised and his words are not heard.
Ecclesiastes 9:17 The words of the wise heard in quiet are better than the shouting of a ruler among fools.
Ecclesiastes 9:18  one sinner destroys much good.
Ecclesiastes 10:1 Dead flies make the perfumer's ointment give off a stench; so a little folly outweighs wisdom and honor.
Ecclesiastes 10:2  A wise man's heart inclines him to the right, but a fool's heart to the left.
Ecclesiastes 10:3 Even when the fool walks on the road, he lacks sense, and he says to everyone that he is a fool.
Ecclesiastes 10:4 If the anger of the ruler rises against you,  will lay great offenses to rest.
Ecclesiastes 10:5 There is an evil that I have seen under the sun, as it were an error proceeding from the ruler:
Ecclesiastes 10:6  folly is set in many high places, and the rich sit in a low place.
Ecclesiastes 10:7  on horses, and princes walking on the ground like slaves.
Ecclesiastes 10:8 He who a serpent will bite him who breaks through a wall.
Ecclesiastes 10:9  splits logs is endangered by them.
Ecclesiastes 10:10 If the iron is blunt, and one does not sharpen the edge, he must use more strength, but wisdom helps one to succeed.
Ecclesiastes 10:11 If the serpent bites before it is charmed, there is no advantage to the charmer.
Ecclesiastes 10:12 The words of a wise man's mouth the lips of a fool consume him.
Ecclesiastes 10:13 The beginning of the words of his mouth is foolishness, and the end of his talk is evil madness.
Ecclesiastes 10:14  what will be after him?
Ecclesiastes 10:15 The toil of a fool wearies him, for he does not know the way to the city.
Ecclesiastes 10:16  Woe to you, O land, when your king is a child, and your princes feast in the morning!
Ecclesiastes 10:17 Happy are you, O land, when your king is the son of the nobility, and your princes feast at the proper time, for strength, and not for drunkenness!
Ecclesiastes 10:18 Through sloth the roof sinks in, and through indolence the house leaks.
Ecclesiastes 10:19 Bread is made for laughter, and money answers everything.
Ecclesiastes 10:20 Even in your thoughts, bedroom curse the rich, for a bird of the air will carry your voice, or some winged creature tell the matter.
Ecclesiastes 11:1 for you will find it after many days.
Ecclesiastes 11:2 for you know not what disaster may happen on earth.
Ecclesiastes 11:3 If the clouds are full of rain, they empty themselves on the earth, and if a tree falls to the south or to the north, in the place where the tree falls, there it will lie.
Ecclesiastes 11:4 He who observes the wind will not sow, and he who regards the clouds will not reap.
Ecclesiastes 11:5 As you do not know the way  of a woman with child, so you do not know the work of God who makes everything.
Ecclesiastes 11:6 In the morning sow your seed, and at evening withhold not your hand, for you do not know which will prosper, this or that, or whether both alike will be good.
Ecclesiastes 11:7 Light is sweet, and it is pleasant for the eyes to see the sun.
Ecclesiastes 11:8 So if a person lives many years, let him rejoice in them all; but let him remember
Ecclesiastes 11:9  God will bring you into judgment.
Ecclesiastes 11:10 Remove vexation from your heart, and  from your body, for youth and the dawn of life are vanity.
Ecclesiastes 12:1 Remember also your Creator in you will say, “I have no pleasure in them”;
Ecclesiastes 12:2 before the sun and the light and the moon and the stars are darkened and the clouds return after the rain,
Ecclesiastes 12:3 in the day when the keepers of the house tremble, and the strong men are bent, and the grinders cease because they are few, and those who look through the windows are dimmed,
Ecclesiastes 12:4 and the daughters of song are brought low —
Ecclesiastes 12:5 they are afraid also of what is high, and mourners go about the streets —
Ecclesiastes 12:6 before the silver cord is snapped, or shattered at the fountain, or the wheel broken at the cistern,
Ecclesiastes 12:7 and who gave it.
Ecclesiastes 12:8  the Preacher; all is vanity.
Ecclesiastes 12:9 Besides being wise, many proverbs with great care.
Ecclesiastes 12:10  The Preacher sought to find words of delight, and uprightly he wrote words of truth.
Ecclesiastes 12:11  one Shepherd.
Ecclesiastes 12:12 My son, beware of anything beyond these. Of making much study is a weariness of the flesh.
Ecclesiastes 12:13 The end of the matter; all has been heard.
Ecclesiastes 12:14 For  every secret thing, whether good or evil.
Song of Solomon 1:1 The Song of Songs, which is Solomon's.
Song of Solomon 1:2  Let him kiss me with the kisses of his mouth! For your
Song of Solomon 1:3 your name is oil poured out; therefore virgins love you.
Song of Solomon 1:4  your love more than wine; rightly do they love you.
Song of Solomon 1:5 I am very dark, but Kedar, like the curtains of Solomon.
Song of Solomon 1:6 Do not gaze at me because I am dark, because the sun has looked upon me. My my own vineyard I have not kept!
Song of Solomon 1:7 Tell me, you companions?
Song of Solomon 1:8 If you do not know, O most beautiful among women, follow in the tracks of the flock, and pasture your young goats beside the shepherds' tents.
Song of Solomon 1:9 I compare you, a mare among Pharaoh's chariots.
Song of Solomon 1:10  Your cheeks are lovely with ornaments, your neck with strings of jewels.
Song of Solomon 1:11 We will make for you  ornaments of gold, studded with silver.
Song of Solomon 1:12 While nard gave forth its fragrance.
Song of Solomon 1:13 My beloved is to me a sachet of myrrh that lies between my breasts.
Song of Solomon 1:14 My beloved is to me a cluster of Engedi.
Song of Solomon 1:15  eyes are doves.
Song of Solomon 1:16 Behold, you are beautiful, delightful. Our couch is green;
Song of Solomon 1:17 the beams of our house are pine.
Song of Solomon 2:1 I am a rosea lily of the valleys.
Song of Solomon 2:2 As a lily among brambles, so is my love among the young women.
Song of Solomon 2:3 As an apple tree among the trees of the forest, so is my fruit was sweet to my taste.
Song of Solomon 2:4 He banner over me was love.
Song of Solomon 2:5 Sustain me withfor I am sick with love.
Song of Solomon 2:6 His embraces me!
Song of Solomon 2:7 I the gazelles or the does of the field, that you not stir up or awaken love until it pleases.
Song of Solomon 2:8 The voice of my beloved! Behold, he comes, leaping over the mountains, bounding over the hills.
Song of Solomon 2:9 My beloved is like a gazelle or a young stag. Behold, there he stands behind our wall, gazing through the windows, looking through the lattice.
Song of Solomon 2:10 My beloved speaks and says to me: “Arise, my love, my beautiful one, and come away,
Song of Solomon 2:11 for behold, the winter is past; the rain is over and gone.
Song of Solomon 2:12  the turtledove is heard in our land.
Song of Solomon 2:13 Arise, my love, my beautiful one, and come away.
Song of Solomon 2:14 O my lovely.
Song of Solomon 2:15 Catchfor our vineyards are in blossom.”
Song of Solomon 2:16   among the lilies.
Song of Solomon 2:17 Until
Song of Solomon 3:1 On my bedI sought him, but found him not.
Song of Solomon 3:2 I will rise now and go about the city, in him whom my soul loves. I sought him, but found him not.
Song of Solomon 3:3  The watchmen found me as they went about in the city. “Have you seen him whom my soul loves?”
Song of Solomon 3:4 Scarcely had I passed them when I found her who conceived me.
Song of Solomon 3:5 by the gazelles or the does of the field, that you not stir up or awaken love until it pleases.
Song of Solomon 3:6  myrrh and frankincense, with all the fragrant powders of a merchant?
Song of Solomon 3:7 Behold, it is the litter mighty men, some of the mighty men of Israel,
Song of Solomon 3:8 all of them wearing swords and expert in war, each with his terror by night.
Song of Solomon 3:9 King Solomon made himself a carriage  from the wood of Lebanon.
Song of Solomon 3:10 He made its posts of silver, its back of gold, its seat of purple; its interior was inlaid with love by the daughters of Jerusalem.
Song of Solomon 3:11 Go out, O the day of his wedding, on the day of the gladness of his heart.
Song of Solomon 4:1 Behold, the slopes of Gilead.
Song of Solomon 4:2 Your teeth are like a flock of shorn ewes that have come up from the washing, all of which bear twins, and not one among them has lost its young.
Song of Solomon 4:3 Your lips are likebehind your veil.
Song of Solomon 4:4 Your them shields of warriors.
Song of Solomon 4:5 Your graze among the lilies.
Song of Solomon 4:6  frankincense.
Song of Solomon 4:7  flaw in you.
Song of Solomon 4:8  Hermon, from the dens of lions, from the mountains of leopards.
Song of Solomon 4:9 You have captivated my heart, my jewel of your necklace.
Song of Solomon 4:10 How beautiful is your love, my the fragrance of your oils than any spice!
Song of Solomon 4:11 Your Lebanon.
Song of Solomon 4:12 A garden locked is my sealed.
Song of Solomon 4:13 Your shoots are nard,
Song of Solomon 4:14 nard and saffron, choice spices —
Song of Solomon 4:15 a garden fountain, a well of Lebanon.
Song of Solomon 4:16 Awake, O north wind, and come, O south wind! Blow upon my choicest fruits.
Song of Solomon 5:1 I friends, drink, and be drunk with love!
Song of Solomon 5:2 I slept, but my heart was awake. A sound! My beloved is locks with the drops of the night.”
Song of Solomon 5:3  bathed my feet; how could I soil them?
Song of Solomon 5:4 My beloved put his hand to the latch, and my heart was thrilled within me.
Song of Solomon 5:5 I arose to open to my beloved, and my hands dripped with myrrh, my fingers with liquid myrrh, on the handles of the bolt.
Song of Solomon 5:6 I opened to my beloved, but my beloved had turned and gone. My soul failed me when heI called him, but he gave no answer.
Song of Solomon 5:7  The watchmen found me as they went about in the city; they beat me, they bruised me, they took away my veil, those watchmen of the walls.
Song of Solomon 5:8 II am sick with love.
Song of Solomon 5:9 What is your beloved more than another beloved, O adjure us?
Song of Solomon 5:10 My beloved is radiant anddistinguished among ten thousand.
Song of Solomon 5:11 His head is the finest gold; his locks are wavy, black as a raven.
Song of Solomon 5:12 His
Song of Solomon 5:13 His liquid myrrh.
Song of Solomon 5:14 His arms are rods of gold, set with
Song of Solomon 5:15 His legs are alabaster columns, set on bases of gold. His appearance is like Lebanon, choice as the cedars.
Song of Solomon 5:16 His daughters of Jerusalem.
Song of Solomon 6:1 Where has your beloved gone, O most beautiful among women? Where has your beloved turned, that we may seek him with you?
Song of Solomon 6:2 My beloved has gone down to his lilies.
Song of Solomon 6:3  I am my beloved's and my beloved is mine; he grazes among the lilies.
Song of Solomon 6:4 You are beautiful asawesome as an army with banners.
Song of Solomon 6:5 Turn away your eyes from me, for they overwhelm me — Your hair is like a flock of goats leaping down the slopes of Gilead.
Song of Solomon 6:6  Your teeth are like a flock of ewes that have come up from the washing; all of them bear twins; not one among them has lost its young.
Song of Solomon 6:7  Your cheeks are like halves of a pomegranate behind your veil.
Song of Solomon 6:8 There are virgins without number.
Song of Solomon 6:9 My concubines also, and they praised her.
Song of Solomon 6:10 awesome as an army with banners?”
Song of Solomon 6:11 I went down to the nut orchard to look atto see whether the vines had budded, whether the pomegranates were in bloom.
Song of Solomon 6:12
Song of Solomon 6:13
Song of Solomon 7:1 How beautiful are your feet in sandals, O a master hand.
Song of Solomon 7:2 Your navel is a rounded bowl that never lacks mixed wine. Your belly is a heap of wheat, encircled with lilies.
Song of Solomon 7:3  Your two breasts are like two fawns, twins of a gazelle.
Song of Solomon 7:4 Your Damascus.
Song of Solomon 7:5 Your head crowns you like flowing locks are like purple; a king is held captive in the tresses.
Song of Solomon 7:6
Song of Solomon 7:7 Your stature is like a palm tree, and your breasts are like its clusters.
Song of Solomon 7:8 I say I will climb the palm tree and lay hold of its fruit. Oh may your breasts be like clusters of the vine, and the scent of your breath like apples,
Song of Solomon 7:9 and your
Song of Solomon 7:10 and his desire is for me.
Song of Solomon 7:11
Song of Solomon 7:12 let us go out early to the vineyards  the grape blossoms have opened and the pomegranates are in bloom. There I will give you my love.
Song of Solomon 7:13 new as well as old, which I have laid up for you, O my beloved.
Song of Solomon 8:1 Oh that you were like a brother to me who nursed at my mother's breasts! If I found you outside, I would kiss you, and none would despise me.
Song of Solomon 8:2 I would lead you and spiced wine to drink, the juice of my pomegranate.
Song of Solomon 8:3  His left hand is under my head, and his right hand embraces me!
Song of Solomon 8:4 Ithat you not stir up or awaken love until it pleases.
Song of Solomon 8:5  Who is that coming up from the wilderness, leaning on her beloved?  Under the apple tree I awakened you. There your mother was in labor with you; there she who bore you was in labor.
Song of Solomon 8:6 Set me as a seal upon your heart, as flame of the LORD.
Song of Solomon 8:7 Many waters cannot quench love, neither can floods drown it. If a man offered for love all the wealth of his  would be utterly despised.
Song of Solomon 8:8 We have a little sister, and she has no breasts. What shall we do for our sister on the day when she is spoken for?
Song of Solomon 8:9 If she is a wall, we will build on her a battlement of silver, but if she is a door, we will enclose her with boards of cedar.
Song of Solomon 8:10   peace.
Song of Solomon 8:11 Solomon had a thousand pieces of silver.
Song of Solomon 8:12 My vineyard, my very own, is before me; you, O Solomon, may have the thousand, and the keepers of the fruit two hundred.
Song of Solomon 8:13 let me hear it.
Song of Solomon 8:14  the mountains of spices.
Isaiah 1:1 The Hezekiah, kings of Judah.
Isaiah 1:2  have I reared and brought up, but they have rebelled against me.
Isaiah 1:3 The ox not know, my people do not understand.”
Isaiah 1:4 Ah, sinful nation, a people laden with iniquity,  estranged.
Isaiah 1:5 Why will you still be continue to rebel? The whole head is sick, and the whole heart faint.
Isaiah 1:6  not pressed out or bound up or softened with oil.
Isaiah 1:7  Your country lies desolate; your cities are burned with fire; in your very presence foreigners devour your land; it is desolate, as overthrown by foreigners.
Isaiah 1:8 And booth in a vineyard, like a lodge in a cucumber field, like a besieged city.
Isaiah 1:9  Gomorrah.
Isaiah 1:10 Hear the word of the LORD, you rulers of Gomorrah!
Isaiah 1:11  “What to me is the multitude of your sacrifices? says the LORD; I have had enough of burnt offerings of rams and the fat of well-fed beasts; I do not delight in the blood of bulls, or of lambs, or of goats.
Isaiah 1:12 “When you come to appear before me, who has required of you this trampling of my courts?
Isaiah 1:13 Bring no more vain offerings; incense is an abomination to me.  solemn assembly.
Isaiah 1:14 Your new moons and your appointed feasts my soul hates; they have become a burden to me; I am weary of bearing them.
Isaiah 1:15 When youyour hands are full of blood.
Isaiah 1:16 cease to do evil,
Isaiah 1:17 learn to do good; bring justice to the fatherless, plead the widow's cause.
Isaiah 1:18 “Come now, white as snow; though they are red like crimson, they shall become like wool.
Isaiah 1:19  If you are willing and obedient, you shall eat the good of the land;
Isaiah 1:20 but if you refuse and rebel, you shall be eaten by the sword; for the mouth of the LORD has spoken.”
Isaiah 1:21 How the faithful city she who was full of justice! Righteousness lodged in her, but now murderers.
Isaiah 1:22  Your silver has become dross, your best wine mixed with water.
Isaiah 1:23 Your princes are rebels and companions of thieves. EveryoneThey do not bring justice to the fatherless, and the widow's cause does not come to them.
Isaiah 1:24 Therefore theand avenge myself on my foes.
Isaiah 1:25  dross as with lye and remove all your alloy.
Isaiah 1:26 And I will restore your judges you shall be called the city of righteousness, the faithful city.”
Isaiah 1:27  Zion shall be redeemed by justice, and those in her who repent, by righteousness.
Isaiah 1:28  But rebels and sinners shall be broken together, and those who forsake the LORD shall be consumed.
Isaiah 1:29  the gardens that you have chosen.
Isaiah 1:30 For you shall be like an oak whose leaf withers, and like a garden without water.
Isaiah 1:31 And the strong shall become none to quench them.
Isaiah 2:1 The word that Isaiah the son of Amoz saw concerning Judah and Jerusalem.
Isaiah 2:2  all the nations shall flow to it,
Isaiah 2:3 and  and the word of the LORD from Jerusalem.
Isaiah 2:4 He shall judge between the nations, and shall decide disputes for many peoples; nation shall not lift up sword against nation, neither shall they learn war anymore.
Isaiah 2:5 O house of Jacob, come, let us walk in the light of the LORD.
Isaiah 2:6 For you have rejected your people, the house of Jacob, because they are full of things strike hands with the children of foreigners.
Isaiah 2:7 Their land is filled with horses, and there is no end to their chariots.
Isaiah 2:8 Their land is the work of their hands, to what their own fingers have made.
Isaiah 2:9 So man is brought low — do not forgive them!
Isaiah 2:10 from before the terror of the LORD, and from the splendor of his majesty.
Isaiah 2:11  The haughty looks of man shall be brought low, and the lofty pride of men shall be humbled, and the LORD alone will be exalted in that day.
Isaiah 2:12  For the LORD of hosts has a day against all that is proud and lofty, against all that is lifted up — and it shall be brought low;
Isaiah 2:13 against all the oaks of Bashan;
Isaiah 2:14 against all the lofty mountains, and against all the uplifted hills;
Isaiah 2:15 against every high tower, and against every fortified wall;
Isaiah 2:16 against all the ships of Tarshish, and against all the beautiful craft.
Isaiah 2:17  And the haughtiness of man shall be humbled, and the lofty pride of men shall be brought low, and the LORD alone will be exalted in that day.
Isaiah 2:18  And the idols shall utterly pass away.
Isaiah 2:19 when he rises to terrify the earth.
Isaiah 2:20 In that day bats,
Isaiah 2:21 when he rises to terrify the earth.
Isaiah 2:22 in whose nostrils is breath, for of what account is he?
Isaiah 3:1 For behold, the support of bread, and all support of water;
Isaiah 3:2  the mighty man and the soldier, the judge and the prophet, the diviner and the elder,
Isaiah 3:3 the captain of fifty and the man of rank, the counselor and the skillful magician and the expert in charms.
Isaiah 3:4   shall rule over them.
Isaiah 3:5  And the people will oppress one another, every one his fellow and every one his neighbor; the youth will be insolent to the elder, and the despised to the honorable.
Isaiah 3:6 For a man will take hold of his brother in the house of his father, saying: “You have a cloak; you shall be our leader, and this heap of ruins shall be under your rule”;
Isaiah 3:7 in that day he will speak out, saying: “I will not be a  in my house there is neither bread nor cloak; you shall not make me leader of the people.”
Isaiah 3:8 For Jerusalem has stumbled, and Judah has fallen, because their
Isaiah 3:9 For the look on their faces bears witness against them; they proclaim their sinFor they have brought evil on themselves.
Isaiah 3:10 for they shall eat the fruit of their deeds.
Isaiah 3:11  Woe to the wicked! It shall be ill with him, for what his hands have dealt out shall be done to him.
Isaiah 3:12 My people —  the course of your paths.
Isaiah 3:13 The LORD has taken his place to contend; he stands to judge peoples.
Isaiah 3:14 The LORD will enter into judgment with thethe spoil of the poor is in your houses.
Isaiah 3:15 What do you mean by crushing my people, by grinding the face of the poor?” declares the Lord GOD of hosts.
Isaiah 3:16 The LORD said: tinkling with their feet,
Isaiah 3:17 therefore the Lord the daughters of Zion, and the LORD will lay bare their secret parts.
Isaiah 3:18 In that day the Lord will take away crescents;
Isaiah 3:19 the pendants, the bracelets, and the scarves;
Isaiah 3:20 the headdresses, the armlets, the sashes, the perfume boxes, and the amulets;
Isaiah 3:21 the signet rings and nose rings;
Isaiah 3:22 the festal robes, the mantles, the cloaks, and the handbags;
Isaiah 3:23 the mirrors, the linen garments, the turbans, and the veils.
Isaiah 3:24 Instead of branding instead of beauty.
Isaiah 3:25 Your men shall fall by the sword and your mighty men in battle.
Isaiah 3:26 And sit on the ground.
Isaiah 4:1  take away our reproach.”
Isaiah 4:2 In that day the fruit of the land shall be the pride and honor of the survivors of Israel.
Isaiah 4:3  been recorded for life in Jerusalem,
Isaiah 4:4 when
Isaiah 4:5 Then the LORD will create over the whole site of Mount Zion and over her assemblies a canopy.
Isaiah 4:6  for a refuge and a shelter from the storm and rain.
Isaiah 5:1 Let me sing for my beloved my love song concerning his vineyard: My beloved had a vineyard on a very fertile hill.
Isaiah 5:2 He dug it and cleared it of stones, and planted it with he looked for it to yield grapes, but it yielded wild grapes.
Isaiah 5:3 And now, O inhabitants of Jerusalem and men of Judah, judge between me and my vineyard.
Isaiah 5:4 When I looked for it to yield grapes, why did it yield wild grapes?
Isaiah 5:5 And now I will tell you what I will do to my vineyard. I will removeI will break down its wall, and it shall be trampled down.
Isaiah 5:6 I will make it a waste; it shall not be pruned or hoed, andI will also command the clouds that they rain no rain upon it.
Isaiah 5:7
Isaiah 5:8 Woe to those who join house to house, who add field to field, until there is no more room, and you are made to dwell alone in the midst of the land.
Isaiah 5:9 The LORD of hosts has sworn in my hearing: “Surely many houses shall be desolate, large and beautiful houses, without inhabitant.
Isaiah 5:10
Isaiah 5:11 Woe to those who rise early in the morning, that they may run after strong drink, who tarry late into the evening as wine inflames them!
Isaiah 5:12 but they do not regard the deeds of the LORD, or see the work of his hands.
Isaiah 5:13 Therefore my people go into exile   and their multitude is parched with thirst.
Isaiah 5:14 Therefore Sheol has exults in her.
Isaiah 5:15   are brought low.
Isaiah 5:16   in justice, and the Holy God shows himself holy in righteousness.
Isaiah 5:17 Then shall the lambs graze nomads shall eat among the ruins of the rich.
Isaiah 5:18 Woe to those who draw iniquity with cords of falsehood, who draw sin as with cart ropes,
Isaiah 5:19 who say: “Let him be quick, let him speed his work that we may see it; let the counsel of the Holy One of Israel draw near, and let it come, that we may know it!”
Isaiah 5:20 Woe towho put darkness for light and light for darkness, who put bitter for sweet and sweet for bitter!
Isaiah 5:21 Woe to those who are wise in their own eyes, and shrewd in their own sight!
Isaiah 5:22 Woe to those who are heroes at drinking wine, and valiant men in mixing strong drink,
Isaiah 5:23 who acquit the guilty for a bribe, and deprive the innocent of his right!
Isaiah 5:24 Therefore, despised the word of the Holy One of Israel.
Isaiah 5:25 ThereforeFor all this his anger has not turned away, and his hand is stretched out still.
Isaiah 5:26 He will from the ends of the earth; and behold, quickly, speedily they come!
Isaiah 5:27  None is weary, none stumbles, none slumbers or sleeps, not a waistband is loose, not a sandal strap broken;
Isaiah 5:28  like the whirlwind.
Isaiah 5:29 Their roaring is like a lion, like young lions they roar; they growl and seize their prey; they carry it off, and none can rescue.
Isaiah 5:30 They will growl over it on that day, like the growling of the sea. And if one looks to the land, behold, darkness and distress; and the light is darkened by its clouds.
Isaiah 6:1 In the year that  of his robe filled the temple.
Isaiah 6:2 Above him stood the seraphim. Each had six wings: with two he covered his face, and with two he covered his feet, and with two he flew.
Isaiah 6:3 And one called to another and said:
Isaiah 6:4 And the house was filled with smoke.
Isaiah 6:5 And I said: “Woe is me! King, the LORD of hosts!”
Isaiah 6:6 Then one of the seraphim flew to me, having in his hand a burning coal that he had taken with tongs from the altar.
Isaiah 6:7 And he touched my mouth and said: “Behold, this has touched your lips; your guilt is taken away, and your sin atoned for.”
Isaiah 6:8 And I heard the voice of the Lord saying, “Whom shall I send, and who will go for us?” Then I said, “Here I am! Send me.”
Isaiah 6:9 And he said, “Go, and say to this people:   but do not perceive.’
Isaiah 6:10 lest they see with their eyes, and hear with their ears, and understand with their hearts, and turn and be healed.”
Isaiah 6:11 Then I said, cities lie waste without inhabitant, and houses without people, and the land is a desolate waste,
Isaiah 6:12 and the LORD removes people far away, and the forsaken places are many in the midst of the land.
Isaiah 6:13   is its stump.
Isaiah 7:1 In the days of Pekah the son of Remaliah the king of Israel came up to Jerusalem to wage war against it, but could not yet mount an attack against it.
Isaiah 7:2 When the house of David was told,  and the heart of his people shook as the trees of the forest shake before the wind.
Isaiah 7:3 And the LORD said to Isaiah, “Go out to meet Ahaz, you and the conduit of the upper pool on the highway to the Washer's Field.
Isaiah 7:4 And say to him, the son of Remaliah.
Isaiah 7:5 Because Syria, with Ephraim and the son of Remaliah, has devised evil against you, saying,
Isaiah 7:6 “Let us go up against Judah and terrify it, and let us conquer it  for ourselves, and set up the son of Tabeel as king in the midst of it,”
Isaiah 7:7 thus says the Lord GOD: “‘It shall not stand, and it shall not come to pass.
Isaiah 7:8 For the head of Syria is Damascus, and the head of Damascus is Rezin. And within sixty-five years Ephraim will be shattered from being a people.
Isaiah 7:9 And the head of Ephraim is Samaria, and the head of Samaria is  are not firm in faith, you will not be firm at all.’”
Isaiah 7:10 Again the LORD spoke to Ahaz:
Isaiah 7:11 “Ask  God; let it be deep as Sheol or high as heaven.”
Isaiah 7:12 But Ahaz said, “I will not ask, and I will not put the LORD to the test.”
Isaiah 7:13 And he weary my God also?
Isaiah 7:14 Therefore the
Isaiah 7:15 He shall eat curds and honey when he knows how to refuse the evil and choose the good.
Isaiah 7:16  deserted.
Isaiah 7:17  Ephraim departed from Judah — the king of Assyria!”
Isaiah 7:18 In that day the LORD will whistle for the fly that is at the end of the streams of Egypt, and for the bee that is in the land of Assyria.
Isaiah 7:19 And they will all come and settle in the steep ravines, and
Isaiah 7:20 In that day  — with the king of Assyria — the head and the hair of the feet, and it will sweep away the beard also.
Isaiah 7:21  In that day a man will keep alive a young cow and two sheep,
Isaiah 7:22 and because of the abundance of milk that they give, he will eat curds, for everyone who is left in the land will eat curds and honey.
Isaiah 7:23 In that day every place where there used to be a thousand vines, worth a thousand shekels briers and thorns.
Isaiah 7:24  With bow and arrows a man will come there, for all the land will be briers and thorns.
Isaiah 7:25  of briers and thorns, but they will become a place where cattle are let loose and where sheep tread.
Isaiah 8:1 Then the LORD said to me, “Take a large tablet
Isaiah 8:2 And Uriah the priest and Zechariah the son of Jeberechiah, to attest for me.”
Isaiah 8:3 And I went to the prophetess, and she conceived and bore a son. Then the LORD said to me, “Call his name Maher-shalal-hash-baz;
Isaiah 8:4  Samaria will be carried away before the king of Assyria.”
Isaiah 8:5 The LORD spoke to me again:
Isaiah 8:6 “Because this people has refused the waters of Rezin and the son of Remaliah,
Isaiah 8:7 therefore, behold, the Lord is bringing up against them will rise over all its channels and go over all its banks,
Isaiah 8:8 and it will sweep on into Judah, it will overflow and pass on, O Immanuel.”
Isaiah 8:9 Be broken,  give ear, all you far countries; strap on your armor and be shattered; strap on your armor and be shattered.
Isaiah 8:10 Take counsel together, but it will come to nothing; speak a word,
Isaiah 8:11 For the LORD spoke thus to me with his strong hand upon me, and warned me not to walk in the way of this people, saying:
Isaiah 8:12 “Do not call do not fear what they fear, nor be in dread.
Isaiah 8:13 But the LORD of hosts, him you shall honor as holy. Let him be your fear, and let him be your dread.
Isaiah 8:14 And he will become a a stone of offense and a rock of stumbling to both houses of Israel, a trap and a snare to the inhabitants of Jerusalem.
Isaiah 8:15 And many shall stumble on it. They shall fall and be broken; they shall be snared and taken.”
Isaiah 8:16 Bind up  among my disciples.
Isaiah 8:17 I will hiding his face from the house of Jacob, and I will hope in him.
Isaiah 8:18  the children whom the LORD has given me are signs and portents in Israel from the LORD of hosts, who dwells on Mount Zion.
Isaiah 8:19 And when they say to you, “Inquire of the the dead on behalf of the living?
Isaiah 8:20  dawn.
Isaiah 8:21 They will pass through the land,  their king and their God, and turn their faces upward.
Isaiah 8:22  thick darkness.
Isaiah 9:1
Isaiah 9:2  deep darkness, on them has light shone.
Isaiah 9:3  when they divide the spoil.
Isaiah 9:4  on the day of Midian.
Isaiah 9:5  For every boot of the tramping warrior in battle tumult and every garment rolled in blood will be burned as fuel for the fire.
Isaiah 9:6  Peace.
Isaiah 9:7 Of the increase of his government and of peace The zeal of the LORD of hosts will do this.
Isaiah 9:8 The Lord has sent a word against Jacob, and it will fall on Israel;
Isaiah 9:9 and all the people will know, Ephraim and the inhabitants of Samaria, who say in pride and in arrogance of heart:
Isaiah 9:10 “The bricks have fallen, but we will build with dressed stones; the sycamores have been cut down, but we will put cedars in their place.”
Isaiah 9:11 But the LORD raises the adversaries of Rezin against him, and stirs up his enemies.
Isaiah 9:12 For all this his anger has not turned away, and his hand is stretched out still.
Isaiah 9:13 The people did not turn to him who struck them, nor inquire of the LORD of hosts.
Isaiah 9:14 So the LORD cut off from Israel head and tail, palm branch and reed in one day —
Isaiah 9:15  the prophet who teaches lies is the tail;
Isaiah 9:16 for those who guide this people have been leading them astray, and those who are guided by them are swallowed up.
Isaiah 9:17 Therefore the Lord does notFor all this his anger has not turned away, and his hand is stretched out still.
Isaiah 9:18 For wickedness burns like a fire; it consumes briers and thorns; it kindles the thickets of the forest, and they roll upward in a column of smoke.
Isaiah 9:19 Through the wrath of the LORD of hosts the land is scorched, andno one spares another.
Isaiah 9:20 each devours the flesh of his own arm,
Isaiah 9:21 Manasseh devours Ephraim, and Ephraim devours Manasseh; together they areFor all this his anger has not turned away, and his hand is stretched out still.
Isaiah 10:1 Woe to those who keep writing oppression,
Isaiah 10:2 to turn aside the needy from justice and to rob the poor of my people of their right, that widows may be their spoil, and that they may make the fatherless their prey!
Isaiah 10:3 What will you do on from afar? To whom will you flee for help, and where will you leave your wealth?
Isaiah 10:4 Nothing remains but to crouch among the prisoners or fall among the slain. For all this his anger has not turned away, and his hand is stretched out still.
Isaiah 10:5 Woe to Assyria, the rod of my anger; the staff in their hands is my fury!
Isaiah 10:6 Against a tread them down like the mire of the streets.
Isaiah 10:7 But he does not so intend, and his heart does not so think; but it is in his heart to destroy, and to cut off nations not a few;
Isaiah 10:8 for he says: “Are not my commanders all kings?
Isaiah 10:9  Samaria like Damascus?
Isaiah 10:10 As my hand has reached to the kingdoms of the idols, whose carved images were greater than those of Jerusalem and Samaria,
Isaiah 10:11 shall I not do to Jerusalem andas I have done to Samaria and her images?”
Isaiah 10:12   of the arrogant heart of the king of Assyria and the boastful look in his eyes.
Isaiah 10:13  For he says: “By the strength of my hand I have done it, and by my wisdom, for I have understanding; I remove the boundaries of peoples, and plunder their treasures; like a bull I bring down those who sit on thrones.
Isaiah 10:14 My hand has found like a nest the wealth of the peoples; and as one gathers eggs that have been forsaken, so I have gathered all the earth; and there was none that moved a wing or opened the mouth or chirped.”
Isaiah 10:15 Shall the axe boast over him who hews with it, or the saw magnify itself against him who wields it? As if a rod should wield him who lifts it, or as if a staff should lift him who is not wood!
Isaiah 10:16 Therefore the Lord GOD of hosts will send wasting sickness among his a burning will be kindled, like the burning of fire.
Isaiah 10:17  in one day.
Isaiah 10:18 The glory of fruitful land the LORD will destroy, both soul and body, and it will be as when a sick man wastes away.
Isaiah 10:19 The remnant of the trees of his forest will be so few that a child can write them down.
Isaiah 10:20  will lean on the LORD, the Holy One of Israel, in truth.
Isaiah 10:21 A remnant will return, the remnant of Jacob, to the mighty God.
Isaiah 10:22  Destruction is decreed, overflowing with righteousness.
Isaiah 10:23 For the Lord GOD of hosts will make a full end, as decreed, in the midst of all the earth.
Isaiah 10:24 Therefore thus says the Lord GOD of hosts: “O my people, the Egyptians did.
Isaiah 10:25 For in a very little while my fury will come to an end, and my anger will be directed to their destruction.
Isaiah 10:26 And as he did in Egypt.
Isaiah 10:27 And in that day
Isaiah 10:28 He has come to Aiath; he has passed through his baggage;
Isaiah 10:29 they have crossed overGibeah of Saul has fled.
Isaiah 10:30 Cry aloud, O daughter of Anathoth!
Isaiah 10:31 Madmenah is in flight; the inhabitants of Gebim flee for safety.
Isaiah 10:32 This very day he will halt at the daughter of Zion, the hill of Jerusalem.
Isaiah 10:33 Behold, the Lord GOD of hosts  the boughs with terrifying power; the great in height will be hewn down, and the lofty will be brought low.
Isaiah 10:34 He will cut down Lebanon will fall by the Majestic One.
Isaiah 11:1 There shall come forth a shoot from the stump of Jesse, and a branch from his roots shall bear fruit.
Isaiah 11:2 And the Spirit of the LORD shall rest upon him, the Spirit of wisdom and understanding, the Spirit of counsel and might, the Spirit of knowledge and the fear of the LORD.
Isaiah 11:3 And his delight shall be in the fear of the LORD.  what his ears hear,
Isaiah 11:4 but he shall kill the wicked.
Isaiah 11:5 Righteousness shall be the belt of his waist, and faithfulness the belt of his loins.
Isaiah 11:6  The wolf shall dwell with the lamb, and the leopard shall lie down with the young goat, and the calf and the lion and the fattened calf together; and a little child shall lead them.
Isaiah 11:7 The cow and the bear shall graze; their young shall lie down together; and the lion shall eat straw like the ox.
Isaiah 11:8 The nursing child shall play over the hole of the cobra, and the weaned child shall put his hand on the adder's den.
Isaiah 11:9 for the earth shall be full of the knowledge of the LORD as the waters cover the sea.
Isaiah 11:10 In that day a signal for the peoples — of him shall the nations inquire, and his resting place shall be glorious.
Isaiah 11:11  the coastlands of the sea.
Isaiah 11:12 He will raise the banished of Israel, and gather the dispersed of Judah from the four corners of the earth.
Isaiah 11:13  The jealousy of Ephraim shall depart, and those who harass Judah shall be cut off; Ephraim shall not be jealous of Judah, and Judah shall not harass Ephraim.
Isaiah 11:14  the Ammonites shall obey them.
Isaiah 11:15 And the LORD will utterly destroy  and strike it into seven channels, and he will lead people across in sandals.
Isaiah 11:16 And there will beas there was for Israel when they came up from the land of Egypt.
Isaiah 12:1 Youyour anger turned away, that you might comfort me.
Isaiah 12:2 “Behold, God is my salvation; I will trust, and will not be afraid; for  is my strength and my song, and he has become my salvation.”
Isaiah 12:3   will draw water from the wells of salvation.
Isaiah 12:4  that his name is exalted.
Isaiah 12:5   in all the earth.
Isaiah 12:6 Shout, and sing for joy, O inhabitant of Zion, for great the Holy One of Israel.”
Isaiah 13:1 The oracle concerning Isaiah the son of Amoz saw.
Isaiah 13:2 On a bare hill them to enter the gates of the nobles.
Isaiah 13:3 I myself have commanded my consecrated ones, and have summoned my mighty men to execute my anger, my proudly exulting ones.
Isaiah 13:4 The soundThe LORD of hosts is mustering a host for battle.
Isaiah 13:5
Isaiah 13:6   it will come!
Isaiah 13:7 Therefore all hands will be feeble, and every human heart will melt.
Isaiah 13:8 They will be dismayed: they will be in anguish like a woman in labor. They will look aghast at one another; their faces will be aflame.
Isaiah 13:9 Behold, to destroy its sinners from it.
Isaiah 13:10 the sun will be dark at its rising, and the moon will not shed its light.
Isaiah 13:11 I will punishand lay low the pompous pride of the ruthless.
Isaiah 13:12 I will make gold of Ophir.
Isaiah 13:13 Therefore I will make the heavens tremble, and the earth will be shaken out of its place, at the wrath of the LORD of hosts in the day of his fierce anger.
Isaiah 13:14 And like a hunted gazelle, or like sheep with none to gather them, each will turn to his own people, and each will flee to his own land.
Isaiah 13:15 Whoever is found will be thrust through, and whoever is caught will fall by the sword.
Isaiah 13:16  Their infants will be dashed in pieces before their eyes; their houses will be plundered and their wives ravished.
Isaiah 13:17 Behold, I am stirring up the Medes against them, who have no regard for silver and do not delight in gold.
Isaiah 13:18   the young men; they will have no mercy on the fruit of the womb; their eyes will not pity children.
Isaiah 13:19 And Babylon, like Sodom and Gomorrah when God overthrew them.
Isaiah 13:20  shepherds will make their flocks lie down there.
Isaiah 13:21 But  will dwell, and there wild goats will dance.
Isaiah 13:22 Hyenas the pleasant palaces; its time is close at hand and its days will not be prolonged.
Isaiah 14:1  sojourners will join them and will attach themselves to the house of Jacob.
Isaiah 14:2 And and rule over those who oppressed them.
Isaiah 14:3 When the LORD has given you rest from your pain and turmoil and the hard service with which you were made to serve,
Isaiah 14:4 you will take up this  ceased!
Isaiah 14:5 The LORD has broken the scepter of rulers,
Isaiah 14:6  that struck the peoples in wrath with unceasing blows, that ruled the nations in anger with unrelenting persecution.
Isaiah 14:7 The whole earth is at rest and quiet; they break forth into singing.
Isaiah 14:8 the cedars of Lebanon, saying, ‘Since you were laid low, no woodcutter comes up against us.’
Isaiah 14:9 Sheol beneath is stirred up to meet you when you come; it rouses the shades to greet you, all who were leaders of the earth; it raises from their thrones all who were kings of the nations.
Isaiah 14:10  All of them will answer and say to you: ‘You too have become as weak as we! You have become like us!’
Isaiah 14:11 Your pomp is brought down to Sheol, the sound of your harps; maggots are laid as a bed beneath you, and worms are your covers.
Isaiah 14:12 “How son of Dawn! How you are cut down to the ground, you who laid the nations low!
Isaiah 14:13 You said in your heart,
Isaiah 14:14 I will ascend above the heights of the clouds; I will make myself like the Most High.’
Isaiah 14:15  But you are brought down to Sheol, to the far reaches of the pit.
Isaiah 14:16 Those who see you will stare at you and ponder over you: ‘Is this the man who made the earth tremble, who shook kingdoms,
Isaiah 14:17 who made the world like a desert and overthrew its cities, who did not let his prisoners go home?’
Isaiah 14:18 All the kings of the nations lie in glory, each in his own tomb;
Isaiah 14:19 but you are cast out, away from your grave, like a loathed branch, clothed with the slain, those pierced by the sword, who go down to the stones of the pit, like a dead body trampled underfoot.
Isaiah 14:20 You will not be joined with them in burial, because you have destroyed your land, you have slain your people.  “May the offspring of evildoers nevermore be named!
Isaiah 14:21 Prepare slaughter for his sons because of the guilt of their fathers, lest they rise and possess the earth, and fill the face of the world with cities.”
Isaiah 14:22 “I will rise up against them,” declares the LORD of hosts, “and will cut off from Babylon name and descendants and posterity,” declares the LORD.
Isaiah 14:23 “And I will make it a possession of the  and pools of water, and I will sweep it with the broom of destruction,” declares the LORD of hosts.
Isaiah 14:24 The LORD of hosts has sworn: “As I have planned, so shall it be, and as I have purposed, so shall it stand,
Isaiah 14:25 that his burden from their shoulder.”
Isaiah 14:26 This is the purpose that is purposed concerning the whole earth, and this is the hand that is stretched out over all the nations.
Isaiah 14:27 His hand is stretched out, and who will turn it back?
Isaiah 14:28 In the year that oracle:
Isaiah 14:29 Rejoice not, flying fiery serpent.
Isaiah 14:30 And the firstborn of the needy lie down in safety; but I will kill your root with famine, and your remnant it will slay.
Isaiah 14:31 For smoke comes out of the north, and there is no straggler in his ranks.
Isaiah 14:32 What will one answer the messengers of the nation? “The LORD has founded Zion, and in her the afflicted of his people find refuge.”
Isaiah 15:1 An Kir of Moab is laid waste in a night, Moab is undone.
Isaiah 15:2 He has gone up to the temple, baldness; every beard is shorn;
Isaiah 15:3 in the streets they wear sackcloth; on the housetops and in the squares everyone wails and melts in tears.
Isaiah 15:4  Jahaz; therefore the armed men of Moab cry aloud; his soul trembles.
Isaiah 15:5 My heart cries out for Moab; her fugitives flee to Zoar, to Horonaim they raise a cry of destruction;
Isaiah 15:6 the waters of Nimrim are a desolation; the grass is withered, the vegetation fails, the greenery is no more.
Isaiah 15:7  Therefore the abundance they have gained and what they have laid up they carry away over the Brook of the Willows.
Isaiah 15:8 For a cry has gone around the land of Moab; her wailing reaches to Eglaim; her wailing reaches to Beer-elim.
Isaiah 15:9 For the waters ofa lion for those of Moab who escape, for the remnant of the land.
Isaiah 16:1  Sela, by way of the desert, to the mount of the daughter of Zion.
Isaiah 16:2 Like fleeing birds, like a scattered nest, so are the daughters of Moab at the fords of the Arnon.
Isaiah 16:3 “Give counsel; grant justice; make your shade like night at the height of noon; shelter the outcasts; do not reveal the fugitive;
Isaiah 16:4 let  from the destroyer. When the oppressor is no more, and destruction has ceased, and he who tramples underfoot has vanished from the land,
Isaiah 16:5  then a throne will be established in steadfast love, and on it will sit in faithfulness in the tent of David one who judges and seeks justice and is swift to do righteousness.”
Isaiah 16:6 of his arrogance, his pride, and his insolence; in his idle boasting he is not right.
Isaiah 16:7 Therefore let Moab wail for Moab,  Kir-hareseth.
Isaiah 16:8 For the fields of Heshbon languish, and the vine of Sibmah; the lords of the nations have struck down its branches, which reached to Jazer and strayed to the desert; its shoots spread abroad and passed over the sea.
Isaiah 16:9 Therefore your summer fruit and your harvest the shout has ceased.
Isaiah 16:10  in the presses; I have put an end to the shouting.
Isaiah 16:11 Therefore my inner parts moan like a lyre for Moab, and my inmost self for Kir-hareseth.
Isaiah 16:12 And when Moab presents himself, when the high place, when he comes to his sanctuary to pray, he will not prevail.
Isaiah 16:13 This is the word that the LORD spoke concerning Moab in the past.
Isaiah 16:14 But now the LORD has spoken, saying, “In three years, very few and feeble.”
Isaiah 17:1 An Damascus. Behold, Damascus will cease to be a city and will become a heap of ruins.
Isaiah 17:2 The cities of none will make them afraid.
Isaiah 17:3 The fortress will disappear from the glory of the children of Israel, declares the LORD of hosts.
Isaiah 17:4 And in that day the fat of his flesh will grow lean.
Isaiah 17:5 And it shall be the Valley of Rephaim.
Isaiah 17:6  Gleanings will be left in it, as when an olive tree is beaten — two or three berries in the top of the highest bough, four or five on the branches of a fruit tree, declares the LORD God of Israel.
Isaiah 17:7  In that day man will look to his Maker, and his eyes will look on the Holy One of Israel.
Isaiah 17:8  Asherim or the altars of incense.
Isaiah 17:9  In that day their strong cities will be like the deserted places of the wooded heights and the hilltops, which they deserted because of the children of Israel, and there will be desolation.
Isaiah 17:10 For Rock of your refuge; therefore, though you plant pleasant plants and sow the vine-branch of a stranger,
Isaiah 17:11 though you make them grow  in a day of grief and incurable pain.
Isaiah 17:12 Ah, the thunder of many peoples; they thunder like the thundering of the sea! Ah, the roar of nations; they roar like the roaring of mighty waters!
Isaiah 17:13  whirling dust before the storm.
Isaiah 17:14  At evening time, behold, terror! Before morning, they are no more! This is the portion of those who loot us, and the lot of those who plunder us.
Isaiah 18:1 Ah, land of
Isaiah 18:2 which mighty and conquering, whose land the rivers divide.
Isaiah 18:3 All you inhabitants of the world, you who dwell on the earth, when a signal is raised on the mountains, look! When a trumpet is blown, hear!
Isaiah 18:4 For thus the LORD said to me: “I will quietly look from my dwelling like clear heat in sunshine, like a cloud of dew in the heat of harvest.”
Isaiah 18:5  For before the harvest, when the blossom is over, and the flower becomes a ripening grape, he cuts off the shoots with pruning hooks, and the spreading branches he lops off and clears away.
Isaiah 18:6  They shall all of them be left to the birds of prey of the mountains and to the beasts of the earth. And the birds of prey will summer on them, and all the beasts of the earth will winter on them.
Isaiah 18:7  name of the LORD of hosts.
Isaiah 19:1 An melt within them.
Isaiah 19:2 And I will stir up Egyptians against Egyptians, and they will fight, each against another and each against his neighbor, city against city, kingdom against kingdom;
Isaiah 19:3 and the spirit of the Egyptians within them will be emptied out, and I will confound the mediums and the necromancers;
Isaiah 19:4 and I will give over the Egyptians into the hand of a hard master, and a fierce king will rule over them, declares the Lord GOD of hosts.
Isaiah 19:5 And the waters of the sea will be dried up, and the river will be dry and parched,
Isaiah 19:6 and its canals will become foul, and the branches of Egypt's Nile will diminish and dry up, reeds and rushes will rot away.
Isaiah 19:7 There will be bare places by the Nile, on the brink of the Nile, and all that is sown by the Nile will be parched, will be driven away, and will be no more.
Isaiah 19:8 The fishermen will mourn and lament, all who cast a hook in the Nile; and they will languish who spread nets on the water.
Isaiah 19:9 The workers in combed flax will be in despair, and the weavers of white cotton.
Isaiah 19:10 Those who are the work for pay will be grieved.
Isaiah 19:11 The princes of Zoan are utterly foolish; the wisest counselors of Pharaoh give stupid counsel. How can you say to Pharaoh, “I am a son of the wise, a son of ancient kings”?
Isaiah 19:12 Where then are your wise men? Let them tell you that they might know what the LORD of hosts has purposed against Egypt.
Isaiah 19:13 The princes of cornerstones of her tribes have made Egypt stagger.
Isaiah 19:14 The LORD has mingled within heras a drunken man staggers in his vomit.
Isaiah 19:15 And there will be nothing for Egypt that head or tail, palm branch or reed, may do.
Isaiah 19:16 In that day the Egyptians will be tremble with fear before the hand that the LORD of hosts shakes over them.
Isaiah 19:17 And the land of Judah will become a terror to the Egyptians. Everyone to whom it is mentioned will fear because of the purpose that the LORD of hosts has purposed against them.
Isaiah 19:18
Isaiah 19:19 In that day there will be an pillar to the LORD at its border.
Isaiah 19:20  he will send them a savior and defender, and deliver them.
Isaiah 19:21  and worship with sacrifice and offering, and they will make vows to the LORD and perform them.
Isaiah 19:22  And the LORD will strike Egypt, striking and healing, and they will return to the LORD, and he will listen to their pleas for mercy and heal them.
Isaiah 19:23  and the Egyptians will worship with the Assyrians.
Isaiah 19:24 In that day Israel will be the third with Egypt and Assyria, a blessing in the midst of the earth,
Isaiah 19:25 whom the LORD of hosts has blessed, saying, “Blessed be Egypt Israel my inheritance.”
Isaiah 20:1 In the year that Ashdod and fought against it and captured it —
Isaiah 20:2 at that time the LORD spoke by Isaiah the son of Amoz, saying, “Go, and loose the sackcloth from your waist and take off your sandals from your feet,” and he did so, walking naked and barefoot.
Isaiah 20:3 Then the LORD said, “As my servant Isaiah has walked naked and barefoot for three years
Isaiah 20:4 so shall the king of Assyria lead away the Egyptian captives and the Cushite exiles, both the young and the old, naked and barefoot, with buttocks uncovered, the nakedness of Egypt.
Isaiah 20:5  Then they shall be dismayed and ashamed because of Cush their hope and of Egypt their boast.
Isaiah 20:6 And the inhabitants of to whom we fled for help to be delivered from the king of Assyria! And we, how shall we escape?’”
Isaiah 21:1 TheAs whirlwinds in the Negeb sweep on, it comes from the wilderness, from a terrible land.
Isaiah 21:2 A stern vision is told to me;  sighing she has caused I bring to an end.
Isaiah 21:3 Therefore my loins are filled with anguish; pangs have seized me, like the pangs of a woman in labor; I am bowed down so that I cannot hear; I am dismayed so that I cannot see.
Isaiah 21:4 My heart staggers; horror has appalled me; the twilight I longed for has been turned for me into trembling.
Isaiah 21:5 oil the shield!
Isaiah 21:6 For thus the Lord said to me: “Go, set a watchman; let him announce what he sees.
Isaiah 21:7 When he sees riders, horsemen in pairs, riders on donkeys, riders on camels, let him listen diligently, very diligently.”
Isaiah 21:8 Then he who saw cried out:“Upon a watchtower I stand, O Lord, continually by day, and at my post I am stationed whole nights.
Isaiah 21:9 And behold, here come riders, horsemen in pairs!” and all the carved images of her gods he has shattered to the ground.”
Isaiah 21:10 O my threshed and winnowed one, what I have heard from the LORD of hosts, the God of Israel, I announce to you.
Isaiah 21:11 The Seir, “Watchman, what time of the night? Watchman, what time of the night?”
Isaiah 21:12 The watchman says: “Morning comes, and also inquire; come back again.”
Isaiah 21:13 The Dedanites.
Isaiah 21:14 To the thirsty bring water; meet the fugitive with bread, O inhabitants of the land of Tema.
Isaiah 21:15 For they have fled from the swords, from the drawn sword, from the bent bow, and from the press of battle.
Isaiah 21:16 For thus the Lord said to me, “Within a year, Kedar will come to an end.
Isaiah 21:17 And the remainder of the archers of the mighty men of the sons of for the LORD, the God of Israel, has spoken.”
Isaiah 22:1 The the valley of vision. What do you mean that you have gone up, all of you, to the housetops,
Isaiah 22:2 you who are full of shoutings, tumultuous city, not slain with the sword or dead in battle.
Isaiah 22:3  All your leaders have fled together; without the bow they were captured. All of you who were found were captured, though they had fled far away.
Isaiah 22:4 Therefore I said: “Look away from me; let me weep bitter tears; do not labor to comfort me concerning the destruction of the daughter of my people.”
Isaiah 22:5  the valley of vision, a battering down of walls and a shouting to the mountains.
Isaiah 22:6 And Kir uncovered the shield.
Isaiah 22:7 Your choicest valleys were full of chariots, and the horsemen took their stand at the gates.
Isaiah 22:8 He has taken away the weapons of the House of the Forest,
Isaiah 22:9 and you saw that You collected the waters of the lower pool,
Isaiah 22:10 and you counted the houses of Jerusalem, and you broke down the houses to fortify the wall.
Isaiah 22:11  you did not look to him who did it, or see him who planned it long ago.
Isaiah 22:12 In that day wearing sackcloth;
Isaiah 22:13 and behold, joy and gladness, killing oxen and slaughtering sheep, eating flesh and drinking wine. “Let us eat and drink, for tomorrow we die.”
Isaiah 22:14 The LORD of hosts until you die,” says the Lord GOD of hosts.
Isaiah 22:15 Thus says the Lord GOD of hosts, “Come, go to this steward, to Shebna, who is over the household, and say to him:
Isaiah 22:16 What have you to do here, and whom have you here, who cut out a tomb on the height and carve a dwelling for yourself in the rock?
Isaiah 22:17 Behold, the LORD will hurl you away violently, O you strong man. He will seize firm hold on you
Isaiah 22:18 and whirl you around and around, and throw you like a ball into a wide land. There you shall die, and there shall be your glorious chariots, you shame of your master's house.
Isaiah 22:19  I will thrust you from your office, and you will be pulled down from your station.
Isaiah 22:20 In that day I will call my servant Eliakim the son of Hilkiah,
Isaiah 22:21 and a father to the inhabitants of Jerusalem and to the house of Judah.
Isaiah 22:22 And I will place He shall open, and none shall shut; and he shall shut, and none shall open.
Isaiah 22:23 And I will fasten him a throne of honor to his father's house.
Isaiah 22:24 And they will hang on him the whole honor of his father's house, the offspring and issue, every small vessel, from the cups to all the flagons.
Isaiah 22:25 In that day, declares the LORD of hosts, the peg that was fastened in a secure place will give way, and it will be cut down and fall, and the load that was on it will be cut off, for the LORD has spoken.”
Isaiah 23:1 The  it is revealed to them.
Isaiah 23:2 Be still, O inhabitants of the coast; the merchants of Sidon, who cross the sea, have filled you.
Isaiah 23:3 And on many waters your revenue was the grain of Shihor, the harvest of the Nile; you were the merchant of the nations.
Isaiah 23:4 Be ashamed, O Sidon, for the sea has spoken, the stronghold of the sea, saying: “I have neither labored nor given birth, I have neither reared young men nor brought up young women.”
Isaiah 23:5 When the report comes to Egypt, they will be in anguish  over the report about Tyre.
Isaiah 23:6  Cross over to Tarshish; wail, O inhabitants of the coast!
Isaiah 23:7 Is this your exultant city whose origin is from days of old, whose feet carried her to settle far away?
Isaiah 23:8 Who has purposed this against Tyre, the bestower of crowns, whose merchants were princes, whose traders were the honored of the earth?
Isaiah 23:9 The LORD of hosts has purposed it,   to dishonor all the honored of the earth.
Isaiah 23:10 Cross over your land like the Nile, O daughter of Tarshish; there is no restraint anymore.
Isaiah 23:11  He has stretched out his hand over the sea; he has shaken the kingdoms; the LORD has given command concerning Canaan to destroy its strongholds.
Isaiah 23:12 And he said: “You will no more exult, O oppressed virgin daughter of Cyprus, even there you will have no rest.”
Isaiah 23:13 Behold the land of their siege towers, they stripped her palaces bare, they made her a ruin.
Isaiah 23:14  Wail, O ships of Tarshish, for your stronghold is laid waste.
Isaiah 23:15 In that day Tyre will be forgotten for seventy years, it will happen to Tyre as in the song of the prostitute:
Isaiah 23:16 “Take a harp; go about the city, O forgotten prostitute! Make sweet melody; sing many songs, that you may be remembered.”
Isaiah 23:17 At the end of will prostitute herself with all the kingdoms of the world on the face of the earth.
Isaiah 23:18 Her merchandise and her wages will be holy to the LORD. It will not be stored or hoarded, but her merchandise will supply abundant food and fine clothing for those who dwell before the LORD.
Isaiah 24:1 Behold,  and make it desolate, and he will twist its surface and scatter its inhabitants.
Isaiah 24:2 as with the creditor, so with the debtor.
Isaiah 24:3 for the LORD has spoken this word.
Isaiah 24:4  The earth mourns and withers; the world languishes and withers; the highest people of the earth languish.
Isaiah 24:5 The earth lies they have transgressed the laws, violated the statutes, broken the everlasting covenant.
Isaiah 24:6 Therefore suffer for their guilt; therefore the inhabitants of the earth are scorched, and few men are left.
Isaiah 24:7  The wine mourns, the vine languishes, all the merry-hearted sigh.
Isaiah 24:8  The mirth of the tambourines is stilled, the noise of the jubilant has ceased, the mirth of the lyre is stilled.
Isaiah 24:9 No more do they drink wine with singing; strong drink is bitter to those who drink it.
Isaiah 24:10 every house is shut up so that none can enter.
Isaiah 24:11 all joy has grown dark; the gladness of the earth is banished.
Isaiah 24:12 Desolation is left in the city; the gates are battered into ruins.
Isaiah 24:13 For thus it shall be in the midst of the earth among the nations, as when an olive tree is beaten, as at the gleaning when the grape harvest is done.
Isaiah 24:14 They lift up their voices, they sing for joy; over the majesty of the LORD they shout from the west.
Isaiah 24:15   give glory to the LORD; in the coastlands of the sea, give glory to the name of the LORD, the God of Israel.
Isaiah 24:16  the traitors have betrayed, with betrayal the traitors have betrayed.”
Isaiah 24:17   are upon you, O inhabitant of the earth!
Isaiah 24:18  the foundations of the earth tremble.
Isaiah 24:19 The earth is utterly broken, the earth is split apart, the earth is violently shaken.
Isaiah 24:20 The earthits transgression lies heavy upon it, and it falls, and will not rise again.
Isaiah 24:21 On that day the LORD will punish the host of heaven, in heaven, and the kings of the earth, on the earth.
Isaiah 24:22  they will be punished.
Isaiah 24:23  the LORD of hosts reigns on Mount Zion and in Jerusalem, and his glory will be before his elders.
Isaiah 25:1 O LORD,plans formed of old, faithful and sure.
Isaiah 25:2 For you have made the city a heap, the fortified city a ruin; the foreigners' palace is a city no more; it will never be rebuilt.
Isaiah 25:3  Therefore strong peoples will glorify you; cities of ruthless nations will fear you.
Isaiah 25:4 for the breath of the ruthless is like a storm against a wall,
Isaiah 25:5  like heat in a dry place. You subdue the noise of the foreigners; as heat by the shade of a cloud, so the song of the ruthless is put down.
Isaiah 25:6 of rich food full of marrow, of aged wine well refined.
Isaiah 25:7 And he will swallow upthe veil that is spread over all nations.
Isaiah 25:8 for the LORD has spoken.
Isaiah 25:9 It will be said on that day, “Behold, this is our God;let us be glad and rejoice in his salvation.”
Isaiah 25:10 For the hand of the LORD will rest
Isaiah 25:11   of his hands.
Isaiah 25:12 And the high fortifications of his walls he will bring down, lay low, and cast to the ground, to the dust.
Isaiah 26:1 In that day salvation as walls and bulwarks.
Isaiah 26:2  Open the gates, that the righteous nation that keeps faith may enter in.
Isaiah 26:3  You keep him in perfect peace whose mind is stayed on you, because he trusts in you.
Isaiah 26:4 Trust in the LORD forever, for the LORD GOD is an everlasting rock.
Isaiah 26:5  For he has humbled the inhabitants of the height, the lofty city. He lays it low, lays it low to the ground, casts it to the dust.
Isaiah 26:6 The foot tramples it, the feet of the needy.”
Isaiah 26:7 The path of the righteous is level; you make level the way of the righteous.
Isaiah 26:8 In the path of your judgments, O LORD, we wait for you;  remembrance are the desire of our soul.
Isaiah 26:9 My soul yearns for you in the night; my spirit within me earnestly seeks you. For when your judgments are in the earth, the inhabitants of the world learn righteousness.
Isaiah 26:10  If favor is shown to the wicked, he does not learn righteousness; in the land of uprightness he deals corruptly and does not see the majesty of the LORD.
Isaiah 26:11 O LORD, the fire for your adversaries consume them.
Isaiah 26:12 O LORD, you will ordain peace for us, for you have indeed done for us all our works.
Isaiah 26:13 O LORD our God, but your name alone we bring to remembrance.
Isaiah 26:14 They are dead, they will not live; they are shades, they will not arise; to that end you have visited them with destruction and wiped out all remembrance of them.
Isaiah 26:15 you have enlarged all the borders of the land.
Isaiah 26:16 O LORD, in distress they sought you; they poured out a whispered prayer when your discipline was upon them.
Isaiah 26:17  Like a pregnant woman who writhes and cries out in her pangs when she is near to giving birth, so were we because of you, O LORD;
Isaiah 26:18  we were pregnant, we writhed, but we have given birth to wind. We have accomplished no deliverance in the earth, and the inhabitants of the world have not fallen.
Isaiah 26:19  your dew is a dew of light, and the earth will give birth to the dead.
Isaiah 26:20 Come, my people, enter your chambers, and shut your doors behind you; hide yourselves for a little while until the fury has passed by.
Isaiah 26:21  the earth for their iniquity, and the earth will disclose the blood shed on it, and will no more cover its slain.
Isaiah 27:1 In that day the LORD with his hard and great and strong the dragon that is in the sea.
Isaiah 27:2 In that day,  sing of it!
Isaiah 27:3 I, the LORD, am its keeper; every moment I water it. Lest anyone punish it, I keep it night and day;
Isaiah 27:4 I have no wrath. Would that I had thorns and briers to battle! I would march against them, I would burn them up together.
Isaiah 27:5 Or let them lay hold of my protection, let them make peace with me, let them make peace with me.”
Isaiah 27:6   Jacob shall take root, Israel shall blossom and put forth shoots and fill the whole world with fruit.
Isaiah 27:7  as their slayers were slain?
Isaiah 27:8   in the day of the east wind.
Isaiah 27:9 Therefore by this Asherim or incense altars will remain standing.
Isaiah 27:10  For the fortified city is solitary, a habitation deserted and forsaken, like the wilderness; there the calf grazes; there it lies down and strips its branches.
Isaiah 27:11 When its boughs are dry, they are broken; women come and make a fire of them. For this is a people without discernment; therefore he who made them will not have compassion on them; he who formed them will show them no favor.
Isaiah 27:12 In that day  to the Brook of Egypt the LORD will thresh out the grain, and you will be gleaned one by one, O people of Israel.
Isaiah 27:13 And in that day will come and worship the LORD on the holy mountain at Jerusalem.
Isaiah 28:1 Ah, the proud crown of the drunkards of Ephraim, and the fading flower of its glorious beauty, which is on the head of the rich valley of those overcome with wine!
Isaiah 28:2 Behold, the Lord has a storm of mighty, overflowing waters, he casts down to the earth with his hand.
Isaiah 28:3  The proud crown of the drunkards of Ephraim will be trodden underfoot;
Isaiah 28:4   before the summer: when someone sees it, he swallows it as soon as it is in his hand.
Isaiah 28:5   and a diadem of beauty, to the remnant of his people,
Isaiah 28:6 and strength to those who turn back the battle at the gate.
Isaiah 28:7   wine, they stagger with strong drink, they reel in vision, they stumble in giving judgment.
Isaiah 28:8 For all tables are full of filthy vomit, with no space left.
Isaiah 28:9  “To whom will he teach knowledge, and to whom will he explain the message? Those who are weaned from the milk, those taken from the breast?
Isaiah 28:10 For it is precept upon precept, precept upon precept, line upon line, line upon line, here a little, there a little.”
Isaiah 28:11  For by people of strange lips and with a foreign tongue the LORD will speak to this people,
Isaiah 28:12 to whom he has said, “This is rest; give rest to the weary; and this is repose”; yet they would not hear.
Isaiah 28:13 And the word of the LORD will be to them precept upon precept, precept upon precept, line upon line, line upon line, here a little, there a little, that they may go, and fall backward, and be broken, and snared, and taken.
Isaiah 28:14 Therefore hear the word of the LORD, you scoffers, who rule this people in Jerusalem!
Isaiah 28:15 Because you have said, “We have made a covenant with death, and with Sheol we have an agreement, when the lies our refuge, and in falsehood we have taken shelter”;
Isaiah 28:16 therefore thus says the Lord GOD,  in Zion, a stone, a tested stone, a precious cornerstone, of a sure foundation: ‘Whoever believes will not be in haste.’
Isaiah 28:17 And I will make justice the plumb line; and hail will sweep away the refuge of lies, and waters will overwhelm the shelter.”
Isaiah 28:18 Then your covenant with death will be annulled, and your agreement with Sheol will not stand; when the overwhelming scourge passes through, you will be beaten down by it.
Isaiah 28:19 As often as it passes through it will take you;  sheer terror to understand the message.
Isaiah 28:20 For the bed is too short to stretch oneself on, and the covering too narrow to wrap oneself in.
Isaiah 28:21 For the LORD will rise up Gibeon he will be roused; to do his deed — strange is his deed! and to work his work — alien is his work!
Isaiah 28:22 Now therefore do not a decree of destruction from the Lord GOD of hosts against the whole land.
Isaiah 28:23 Give ear, and hear my voice; give attention, and hear my speech.
Isaiah 28:24 Does he who plows for sowing plow continually? Does he continually open and harrow his ground?
Isaiah 28:25   as the border?
Isaiah 28:26  For he is rightly instructed; his God teaches him.
Isaiah 28:27 Dill is not threshed with a threshing sledge, nor is a cart wheel rolled over cumin, but dill is beaten out with a stick, and cumin with a rod.
Isaiah 28:28 Does one crush grain for bread? No, he does not thresh it forever;  when he drives his cart wheel over it with his horses, he does not crush it.
Isaiah 28:29 This also comes from the LORD of hosts; he is wonderful in counsel and excellent in wisdom.
Isaiah 29:1 Ah, Ariel, Ariel, the city where David encamped! Add year to year; let the feasts run their round.
Isaiah 29:2 Yet I will distress Ariel, and there shall be moaning and lamentation, and she shall be to me like an Ariel.
Isaiah 29:3  with towers and I will raise siegeworks against you.
Isaiah 29:4  the voice of a ghost, and from the dust your speech shall whisper.
Isaiah 29:5 But the multitude of your foreign foes shall be likeAnd in an instant, suddenly,
Isaiah 29:6  you will be visited by the LORD of hosts with thunder and with earthquake and great noise, with whirlwind and tempest, and the flame of a devouring fire.
Isaiah 29:7 And like a dream, a vision of the night.
Isaiah 29:8  As when a hungry man dreams, and behold, he is eating, and awakes with his hunger not satisfied, or as when a thirsty man dreams, and behold, he is drinking, and awakes faint, with his thirst not quenched, so shall the multitude of all the nations be that fight against Mount Zion.
Isaiah 29:9 Astonish yourselves  but not with strong drink!
Isaiah 29:10  For the LORD has poured out upon you a spirit of deep sleep, and has closed your eyes (the prophets), and covered your heads (the seers).
Isaiah 29:11 And the vision of all this has become to you like the words of a book that is sealed. When men give it to one who can read, saying, “Read this,” he says, “I cannot, for it is sealed.”
Isaiah 29:12 And when they give the book to one who cannot read, saying, “Read this,” he says, “I cannot read.”
Isaiah 29:13 And the Lord said: “Because draw near with their mouth and honor me with their lips, while their hearts are far from me, and their fear of me is a commandment taught by men,
Isaiah 29:14 therefore, behold, the wisdom of their wise men shall perish, and the discernment of their discerning men shall be hidden.”
Isaiah 29:15 Ah, in the dark, and who say, “Who sees us? Who knows us?”
Isaiah 29:16  You turn things upside down! Shall the potter be regarded as the clay, that the thing made should say of its maker, “He did not make me”; or the thing formed say of him who formed it, “He has no understanding”?
Isaiah 29:17 Is it not yet a very little while until Lebanon shall be turned into a fruitful field, and the fruitful field shall be regarded as a forest?
Isaiah 29:18 In that daythe eyes of the blind shall see.
Isaiah 29:19  The meek shall obtain fresh joy in the LORD, and the poor among mankind shall exult in the Holy One of Israel.
Isaiah 29:20 For the ruthless shall come to nothing and the scoffer cease, and all who watch to do evil shall be cut off,
Isaiah 29:21 who by a word make a man out to be an offender, and turn aside him who is in the right.
Isaiah 29:22 Therefore thus says the LORD, who redeemed Abraham, concerning the house of Jacob: “Jacob shall no more be ashamed, no more shall his face grow pale.
Isaiah 29:23 For when he sees his children, they will sanctify the Holy One of Jacob and will stand in awe of the God of Israel.
Isaiah 29:24 And those who go astray in spirit will come to understanding, and those who murmur will accept instruction.”
Isaiah 30:1 “Ah,  but not of my Spirit, that they may add sin to sin;
Isaiah 30:2  who set out to go down to Egypt, without asking for my direction, to take refuge in the protection of Pharaoh and to seek shelter in the shadow of Egypt!
Isaiah 30:3  Therefore shall the protection of Pharaoh turn to your shame, and the shelter in the shadow of Egypt to your humiliation.
Isaiah 30:4 For though his officials are at Hanes,
Isaiah 30:5 everyone comes to shame through a people that cannot profit them, that brings neither help nor profit, but shame and disgrace.”
Isaiah 30:6 An flying fiery serpent, they carry their riches on the backs of donkeys, and their treasures on the humps of camels, to a people that cannot profit them.
Isaiah 30:7 Egypt's“Rahab who sits still.”
Isaiah 30:8 And now, go,
Isaiah 30:9  For they are a rebellious people, lying children, children unwilling to hear the instruction of the LORD;
Isaiah 30:10  smooth things, prophesy illusions,
Isaiah 30:11 leave the way, turn aside from the path, let us hear no more about the Holy One of Israel.”
Isaiah 30:12 Therefore thus says the Holy One of Israel, “Because you despise this word and trust in oppression and perverseness and rely on them,
Isaiah 30:13 therefore this iniquity shall be to you like a breach in a high wall, bulging out and about to collapse, whose breaking comes suddenly, in an instant;
Isaiah 30:14 and its breaking is like that of a potter's vessel that is smashed so ruthlessly that among its fragments not a shard is found with which to take fire from the hearth, or to dip up water out of the cistern.”
Isaiah 30:15 For thus said the Lord GOD, the Holy One of Israel, “In rest you shall be saved; in quietness and in trust shall be your strength.” But you were unwilling,
Isaiah 30:16 and you said, “No! We will flee upon horses”; therefore you shall flee away; and, “We will ride upon swift steeds”; therefore your pursuers shall be swift.
Isaiah 30:17  A thousand shall flee at the threat of one; at the threat of five you shall flee, till you are left like a flagstaff on the top of a mountain, like a signal on a hill.
Isaiah 30:18 Therefore the LORDblessed are all those who wait for him.
Isaiah 30:19 For a people shall dwell in Zion, in Jerusalem; you shall weep no more. He will surely be gracious to you at the sound of your cry. As soon as he hears it, he answers you.
Isaiah 30:20 And though the Lord give you the yet your Teacher will not hide himself anymore, but your eyes shall see your Teacher.
Isaiah 30:21  the way, walk in it,” when you turn to the right or when you turn to the left.
Isaiah 30:22 Then you will defile your carved idols overlaid with silver and your gold-plated metal images. You will scatter them as unclean things. You will say to them, “Be gone!”
Isaiah 30:23  In that day your livestock will graze in large pastures,
Isaiah 30:24 and the oxen and the donkeys that work the ground will eat seasoned fodder, which has been winnowed with shovel and fork.
Isaiah 30:25 And when the towers fall.
Isaiah 30:26  the brokenness of his people, and heals the wounds inflicted by his blow.
Isaiah 30:27 Behold, the name of the LORD comes from afar, burning with his anger, and in thick rising smoke;  his lips are full of fury, and his tongue is like a devouring fire;
Isaiah 30:28  a bridle that leads astray.
Isaiah 30:29 You shall have a song as in the night when a holy feast is kept, and gladness of heart, the Rock of Israel.
Isaiah 30:30 And the LORD and storm and hailstones.
Isaiah 30:31 The Assyrians will be terror-stricken at the voice of the LORD, when he strikes with his rod.
Isaiah 30:32 And every stroke of the appointed staff that the LORD lays on them Battling with brandished arm, he will fight with them.
Isaiah 30:33 For the breath of the LORD, like a stream of sulfur, kindles it.
Isaiah 31:1 Woe do not look to the Holy One of Israel or consult the LORD!
Isaiah 31:2 And those who work iniquity.
Isaiah 31:3 The Egyptians are man, and not God, and their horses are flesh, and not spirit. When the LORD stretches out his hand, the helper will stumble, and he who is helped will fall, and they will all perish together.
Isaiah 31:4 For thus the LORD said to me,   on Mount Zion and on its hill.
Isaiah 31:5  Like birds hovering, so the LORD of hosts will protect Jerusalem; he will protect and deliver it; he will spare and rescue it.”
Isaiah 31:6  deeply revolted, O children of Israel.
Isaiah 31:7 For in that day everyone shall cast away his idols of silver and his idols of gold, which your hands have sinfully made for you.
Isaiah 31:8  put to forced labor.
Isaiah 31:9  furnace is in Jerusalem.
Isaiah 32:1 Behold, a king will reign in righteousness, and princes will rule in justice.
Isaiah 32:2 like streams of water in a dry place, like the shade of a great rock in a weary land.
Isaiah 32:3  Then the eyes of those who see will not be closed, and the ears of those who hear will give attention.
Isaiah 32:4 The heart of the hasty will understand and know, and the tongue of the stammerers will hasten to speak distinctly.
Isaiah 32:5  The fool will no more be called noble, nor the scoundrel said to be honorable.
Isaiah 32:6 Forto leave the craving of the hungry unsatisfied, and to deprive the thirsty of drink.
Isaiah 32:7 As for the scoundrel — his devices are evil; he plans wicked schemes to ruin the poor with lying words, even when the plea of the needy is right.
Isaiah 32:8 But he who is noble plans noble things, and on noble things he stands.
Isaiah 32:9  who are at ease, hear my voice; you complacent daughters, give ear to my speech.
Isaiah 32:10 In little more than a year you will shudder, you complacent women; for the grape harvest fails, the fruit harvest will not come.
Isaiah 32:11 Tremble, you womenand tie sackcloth around your waist.
Isaiah 32:12  Beat your breasts for the pleasant fields, for the fruitful vine,
Isaiah 32:13 yes, for all the joyous houses in the exultant city.
Isaiah 32:14 For the palace is forsaken, the populous city deserted; the hill and the watchtower will become dens forever, a joy of wild donkeys, a pasture of flocks;
Isaiah 32:15 until the wilderness becomes a fruitful field, and the fruitful field is deemed a forest.
Isaiah 32:16 Then justice will dwell in the wilderness, and righteousness abide in the fruitful field.
Isaiah 32:17   forever.
Isaiah 32:18 My people will abide in a peaceful habitation, in secure dwellings, and in quiet resting places.
Isaiah 32:19 and the city will be utterly laid low.
Isaiah 32:20  Happy are you who sow beside all waters, who let the feet of the ox and the donkey range free.
Isaiah 33:1  Ah, you destroyer, who yourself have not been destroyed, you traitor, whom none has betrayed! When you have ceased to destroy, you will be destroyed; and when you have finished betraying, they will betray you.
Isaiah 33:2 O LORD, be gracious to us; we wait for you. Be our arm every morning, our salvation in the time of trouble.
Isaiah 33:3  At the tumultuous noise peoples flee; when you lift yourself up, nations are scattered,
Isaiah 33:4 and your spoil is gathered as the caterpillar gathers; as locusts leap, it is leapt upon.
Isaiah 33:5  The LORD is exalted, for he dwells on high; he will fill Zion with justice and righteousness,
Isaiah 33:6   treasure.
Isaiah 33:7 Behold, their heroes cry in the streets; the envoys of peace weep bitterly.
Isaiah 33:8   are despised; there is no regard for man.
Isaiah 33:9  The land mourns and languishes; Lebanon is confounded and withers away; Sharon is like a desert, and Bashan and Carmel shake off their leaves.
Isaiah 33:10  “Now I will arise,” says the LORD, “now I will lift myself up; now I will be exalted.
Isaiah 33:11  a fire that will consume you.
Isaiah 33:12 And the peoples will be as if burned to lime, like thorns cut down, that are burned in the fire.”
Isaiah 33:13 Hear, you who are far off, what I have done; and you who are near, acknowledge my might.
Isaiah 33:14 The sinners in Zion are afraid; trembling has seized the godless:  with the consuming fire? Who among us can dwell with everlasting burnings?”
Isaiah 33:15 and shuts his eyes from looking on evil,
Isaiah 33:16 he will dwell on the heights; his place of defense will be the fortresses of rocks; his bread will be given him; his water will be sure.
Isaiah 33:17 they will see a land that stretches afar.
Isaiah 33:18  he who counted the towers?”
Isaiah 33:19  of an obscure speech that you cannot comprehend, stammering in a tongue that you cannot understand.
Isaiah 33:20 Behold Zion, the city of our appointed feasts!  immovable tent, whose stakes will never be plucked up, nor will any of its cords be broken.
Isaiah 33:21 But there the LORD in majesty will be for us a place ofwhere no galley with oars can go, nor majestic ship can pass.
Isaiah 33:22 For the LORD is our king; he will save us.
Isaiah 33:23 Your cords hang loose; they cannot hold the mast firm in its place or keep the sail spread out.  the lame will take the prey.
Isaiah 33:24 And no inhabitant will say,the people who dwell there will be forgiven their iniquity.
Isaiah 34:1 Draw near, O nations, to hear, and give attention, O peoples! Let the earth hear, and all that fills it; the world, and all that comes from it.
Isaiah 34:2 For the LORD is enraged against all the nations, and furious against all their host; he has  has given them over for slaughter.
Isaiah 34:3 Their slain shall be cast out, andthe mountains shall flow with their blood.
Isaiah 34:4  All the host of heaven shall rot away, and the skies roll up like a scroll. All their host shall fall, as leaves fall from the vine, like leaves falling from the fig tree.
Isaiah 34:5 For my sword has drunk its fill in the heavens; behold, it descends for judgment upon I have devoted to destruction.
Isaiah 34:6 The LORD has a sword; it is sated with blood; it is gorged with fat, with the blood of lambs and goats, with the fat of the kidneys of rams. For the LORD has a sacrifice in Bozrah, a great slaughter in the land of Edom.
Isaiah 34:7  the mighty bulls. Their land shall drink its fill of blood, and their soil shall be gorged with fat.
Isaiah 34:8  For the LORD has a day of vengeance, a year of recompense for the cause of Zion.
Isaiah 34:9   shall be turned into pitch, and her soil into sulfur; her land shall become burning pitch.
Isaiah 34:10 Night and dayFrom generation to generation it shall lie waste; none shall pass through it forever and ever.
Isaiah 34:11   over it, and the plumb line of emptiness.
Isaiah 34:12 Its nobles — there is no one there to call it a kingdom, and all its princes shall be nothing.
Isaiah 34:13
Isaiah 34:14   settles and finds for herself a resting place.
Isaiah 34:15 There the owl nests and lays and hatches and gathers her young in her shadow; indeed, there the hawks are gathered, each one with her mate.
Isaiah 34:16 Seek and read from the book of the LORD: Not one of these shall be missing; none shall be without her mate. For the mouth of the LORD has commanded, and his Spirit has gathered them.
Isaiah 34:17  He has cast the lot for them; his hand has portioned it out to them with the line; they shall possess it forever; from generation to generation they shall dwell in it.
Isaiah 35:1 the desert shall rejoice and blossom like the crocus;
Isaiah 35:2 it shall blossom abundantly and rejoice with joy and singing. They shall see the glory of the LORD, the majesty of our God.
Isaiah 35:3  Strengthen the weak hands, and make firm the feeble knees.
Isaiah 35:4 Say to those who have an anxious heart, “Be strong; fear not! Behold, your God will come with vengeance, with the recompense of God. He will come and save you.”
Isaiah 35:5  Then the eyes of the blind shall be opened, and the ears of the deaf unstopped;
Isaiah 35:6 For waters break forth in the wilderness, and streams in the desert;
Isaiah 35:7  jackals, where they lie down, the grass shall become reeds and rushes.
Isaiah 35:8
Isaiah 35:9 No lion shall be there, nor shall any ravenous beast come up on it; they shall not be found there, but the redeemed shall walk there.
Isaiah 35:10 everlasting joy shall be upon their heads; they shall obtain gladness and joy, and sorrow and sighing shall flee away.
Isaiah 36:1  Sennacherib king of Assyria came up against all the fortified cities of Judah and took them.
Isaiah 36:2  by the conduit of the upper pool on the highway to the Washer's Field.
Isaiah 36:3 And there came out to him Shebna the secretary, and Joah the son of Asaph, the recorder.
Isaiah 36:4 And the Rabshakeh said to them, “Say to Hezekiah, ‘Thus says the great king, the king of Assyria: On what do you rest this trust of yours?
Isaiah 36:5 Do you think that mere words are strategy and power for war? In whom do you now trust, that you have rebelled against me?
Isaiah 36:6  Behold, you are trusting in Egypt, that broken reed of a staff, which will pierce the hand of any man who leans on it. Such is Pharaoh king of Egypt to all who trust in him.
Isaiah 36:7 But if you say to me, “We trust in the LORD our God,” is it not he whose high places and altars Hezekiah has removed, saying to Judah and to Jerusalem, “You shall worship before this altar”?
Isaiah 36:8 Come now, make a wager with my master the king of Assyria: I will give you two thousand horses, if you are able on your part to set riders on them.
Isaiah 36:9 How then can you repulse you trust in Egypt for chariots and for horsemen?
Isaiah 36:10 Moreover, is it without the LORD that I have come up against this land to destroy it? The LORD said to me, “Go up against this land and destroy it.”’”
Isaiah 36:11 Then Eliakim, Shebna, and Joah said to the Rabshakeh, “Please speak to your servants in Aramaic, for we understand it. Do not speak to us in the language of Judah within the hearing of the people who are on the wall.”
Isaiah 36:12 But the Rabshakeh said, “Has my master sent me to speak these words to your master and to you, and not to the men sitting on the wall, who are doomed with you to eat their own dung and drink their own urine?”
Isaiah 36:13 Then the Rabshakeh stood and called out in a loud voice in the language of Judah: “Hear the words of the great king, the king of Assyria!
Isaiah 36:14 Thus says the king: ‘Do not let Hezekiah deceive you, for he will not be able to deliver you.
Isaiah 36:15 Do not let Hezekiah make you trust in the LORD by saying, “The LORD will surely deliver us. This city will not be given into the hand of the king of Assyria.”
Isaiah 36:16 Do not listen to Hezekiah. For thus says the king of Assyria: Make your peace with me  and come out to me. Then each one of you will eat of his own vine, and each one of his own fig tree, and each one of you will drink the water of his own cistern,
Isaiah 36:17 until I come and take you away to a land like your own land, a land of grain and wine, a land of bread and vineyards.
Isaiah 36:18 Beware lest Hezekiah mislead you by saying, “The LORD will deliver us.” Has any of the gods of the nations delivered his land out of the hand of the king of Assyria?
Isaiah 36:19  Have they delivered Samaria out of my hand?
Isaiah 36:20  Who among all the gods of these lands have delivered their lands out of my hand, that the LORD should deliver Jerusalem out of my hand?’”
Isaiah 36:21 But they were silent and answered him not a word, for the king's command was, “Do not answer him.”
Isaiah 36:22  Then Eliakim the son of Hilkiah, who was over the household, and Shebna the secretary, and Joah the son of Asaph, the recorder, came to Hezekiah with their clothes torn, and told him the words of the Rabshakeh.
Isaiah 37:1  As soon as King Hezekiah heard it, he tore his clothes and covered himself with sackcloth and went into the house of the LORD.
Isaiah 37:2 And he sent Eliakim, who was over the household, and Shebna the secretary, and the senior priests, covered with sackcloth, to the prophet Isaiah the son of Amoz.
Isaiah 37:3 They said to him, “Thus says Hezekiah, ‘This day is a children have come to the point of birth, and there is no strength to bring them forth.
Isaiah 37:4  the remnant that is left.’”
Isaiah 37:5 When the servants of King Hezekiah came to Isaiah,
Isaiah 37:6 Isaiah said to them, “Say to your master, ‘Thus says the LORD: Do not be afraid because of the words that you have heard, with which the young men of the king of Assyria have reviled me.
Isaiah 37:7 Behold, I will make him fall by the sword in his own land.’”
Isaiah 37:8 The Rabshakeh returned, and found the king of Assyria fighting against Lachish.
Isaiah 37:9 Now the king heard concerning Tirhakah king of  “He has set out to fight against you.” And when he heard it, he sent messengers to Hezekiah, saying,
Isaiah 37:10 “Thus shall you speak to Hezekiah king of Judah: ‘Do not let your God in whom you trust deceive you by promising that Jerusalem will not be given into the hand of the king of Assyria.
Isaiah 37:11 Behold, you have heard what the kings of Assyria have done to all lands, devoting them to destruction. And shall you be delivered?
Isaiah 37:12  Haran, Rezeph, and the people of Eden who were in Telassar?
Isaiah 37:13  Where is the king of Hamath, the king of Arpad, the king of the city of Sepharvaim, the king of Hena, or the king of Ivvah?’”
Isaiah 37:14 Hezekiah received the letter from the hand of the messengers, and read it; and Hezekiah went up to the house of the LORD, and spread it before the LORD.
Isaiah 37:15 And Hezekiah prayed to the LORD:
Isaiah 37:16 “O LORD of hosts, God of Israel, you have made heaven and earth.
Isaiah 37:17  all the words of Sennacherib, which he has sent to mock the living God.
Isaiah 37:18 Truly, O LORD, the kings of Assyria have laid waste all the nations and their lands,
Isaiah 37:19 and have cast their gods into the fire. For they were no gods, but the work of men's hands, wood and stone. Therefore they were destroyed.
Isaiah 37:20 So now, O LORD our God, save us from his hand, that all the kingdoms of the earth may know that you alone are the LORD.”
Isaiah 37:21 Then Isaiah the son of Amoz sent to Hezekiah, saying, “Thus says the LORD, the God of Israel: Because you have prayed to me concerning Sennacherib king of Assyria,
Isaiah 37:22 this is the word that the LORD has spoken concerning him: “‘She despises you, she scorns you — the virgin daughter of Zion; she wags her head behind you — the daughter of Jerusalem.
Isaiah 37:23 “‘Whom have you mocked and reviled? Against whom have you raised your voice and lifted your eyes to the heights? Against the Holy One of Israel!
Isaiah 37:24 By your servants you have mocked the Lord, and you have said,to cut down its tallest cedars, its choicest cypresses, to come to its remotest height, its most fruitful forest.
Isaiah 37:25 I dug wells and drank waters, to dry up with the sole of my foot all of Egypt.
Isaiah 37:26  “‘Have you not heard that I determined it long ago? I planned from days of old what now I bring to pass, that you should make fortified cities crash into heaps of ruins,
Isaiah 37:27 while their inhabitants, shorn of strength, are dismayed and confounded, and have become like plants of the field and like tender grass, like grass on the housetops, blighted  before it is grown.
Isaiah 37:28 “‘I know your sitting down and your going out and coming in, and your raging against me.
Isaiah 37:29  I will turn you back on the way by which you came.’
Isaiah 37:30 “And this shall be the sign for you: this year you shall eat what grows of itself, and in the second year what springs from that. Then in the third year sow and reap, and plant vineyards, and eat their fruit.
Isaiah 37:31 And the surviving remnant of the house of Judah shall again take root downward and bear fruit upward.
Isaiah 37:32  The zeal of the LORD of hosts will do this.
Isaiah 37:33 “Therefore thus says the LORD concerning the king of Assyria: He shall not come into this city or shoot an arrow there or come before it with a shield or cast up a siege mound against it.
Isaiah 37:34 By the way that he came, by the same he shall return, and he shall not come into this city, declares the LORD.
Isaiah 37:35  the sake of my servant David.”
Isaiah 37:36  And the angel of the LORD went out and struck down 185,000 in the camp of the Assyrians. And when people arose early in the morning, behold, these were all dead bodies.
Isaiah 37:37 Then Sennacherib king of Assyria departed and returned home and lived at Nineveh.
Isaiah 37:38 And as he was worshiping in the house of Nisroch his god, Adrammelech and Sharezer, his sons, struck him down with the sword. And after they escaped into the land of Esarhaddon his son reigned in his place.
Isaiah 38:1
Isaiah 38:2 Then Hezekiah turned his face to the wall and prayed to the LORD,
Isaiah 38:3 and said, “Please, O LORD, remember how I have walked before you in faithfulness and with a whole heart, and have done what is good in your sight.” And Hezekiah wept bitterly.
Isaiah 38:4 Then the word of the LORD came to Isaiah:
Isaiah 38:5 “Go and say to Hezekiah, Thus says the LORD, the God of David your father: I have heard your prayer; I have seen your tears. Behold, I will add
Isaiah 38:6  I will deliver you and this city out of the hand of the king of Assyria, and will defend this city.
Isaiah 38:7 “This shall be the sign to you from the LORD, that the LORD will do this thing that he has promised:
Isaiah 38:8
Isaiah 38:9 A writing of Hezekiah king of Judah, after he had been sick and had recovered from his sickness:
Isaiah 38:10 I said,  of my days I must depart; I am consigned to the gates of Sheol for the rest of my years.
Isaiah 38:11 I said, I shall not see the LORD, the LORD in the land of the living; I shall look on man no more among the inhabitants of the world.
Isaiah 38:12 My dwelling is plucked up and removed from me from day to night you bring me to an end;
Isaiah 38:13  he breaks all my bones; from day to night you bring me to an end.
Isaiah 38:14 Like be my pledge of safety!
Isaiah 38:15 What shall I say? For he has spoken to me, and he himself has done it. I walk slowly all my years because of the bitterness of my soul.
Isaiah 38:16  O Lord, by these things men live, and in all these is the life of my spirit. Oh restore me to health and make me live!
Isaiah 38:17 for you have cast all my sins behind your back.
Isaiah 38:18  For Sheol does not thank you; death does not praise you; those who go down to the pit do not hope for your faithfulness.
Isaiah 38:19 The living, the living, he thanks you, as I do this day; the father makes known to the children your faithfulness.
Isaiah 38:20 The LORD will save me, and we will play my music on stringed instruments all the days of our lives, at the house of the LORD.
Isaiah 38:21  Now Isaiah had said, “Let them take a cake of figs and apply it to the boil, that he may recover.”
Isaiah 38:22 Hezekiah also had said, “What is the sign that I shall go up to the house of the LORD?”
Isaiah 39:1  sent envoys with letters and a present to Hezekiah, for he heard that he had been sick and had recovered.
Isaiah 39:2 And Hezekiah welcomed them gladly. And he showed them his treasure house, There was nothing in his house or in all his realm that Hezekiah did not show them.
Isaiah 39:3 Then Isaiah the prophet came to King Hezekiah, and said to him, “What did these men say? And from where did they come to you?” Hezekiah said, “They have come to me from a far country, from Babylon.”
Isaiah 39:4 He said, “What have they seen in your house?” Hezekiah answered, “They have seen all that is in my house. There is nothing in my storehouses that I did not show them.”
Isaiah 39:5 Then Isaiah said to Hezekiah, “Hear the word of the LORD of hosts:
Isaiah 39:6  Behold, the days are coming, when all that is in your house, and that which your fathers have stored up till this day, shall be carried to Babylon. Nothing shall be left, says the LORD.
Isaiah 39:7  And some of your own sons, who will come from you, whom you will father, shall be taken away, and they shall be eunuchs in the palace of the king of Babylon.”
Isaiah 39:8 Then Hezekiah said to Isaiah, “The word of the LORD that you have spoken is good.” For he thought, “There will be peace and security in my days.”
Isaiah 40:1  Comfort, comfort my people, says your God.
Isaiah 40:2   is ended, that her iniquity is pardoned, that she has received from the LORD's hand double for all her sins.
Isaiah 40:3 make straight in the desert a highway for our God.
Isaiah 40:4  Every valley shall be lifted up, and every mountain and hill be made low; the uneven ground shall become level, and the rough places a plain.
Isaiah 40:5 for the mouth of the LORD has spoken.”
Isaiah 40:6 A voice says, “Cry!” And I said,  is like the flower of the field.
Isaiah 40:7 The grass withers, the flower fades when the breath of the LORD blows on it; surely the people are grass.
Isaiah 40:8  The grass withers, the flower fades, but the word of our God will stand forever.
Isaiah 40:9 Go on up to a high mountain, O Zion,  lift it up, fear not; say to the cities of Judah, “Behold your God!”
Isaiah 40:10 behold, his reward is with him, and his recompense before him.
Isaiah 40:11 he will carry them in his bosom, and gently lead those that are with young.
Isaiah 40:12  Who has measured the waters in the hollow of his hand and marked off the heavens with a span, enclosed the dust of the earth in a measure and weighed the mountains in scales and the hills in a balance?
Isaiah 40:13   the Spirit of the LORD, or what man shows him his counsel?
Isaiah 40:14 Whom did he consult, and who made him understand? Who taught him the path of justice, and taught him knowledge, and showed him the way of understanding?
Isaiah 40:15 Behold, the nations are like a drop from a bucket, and are accounted the coastlands like fine dust.
Isaiah 40:16 Lebanon would not suffice for fuel, nor are its beasts enough for a burnt offering.
Isaiah 40:17  All the nations are as nothing before him, they are accounted by him as less than nothing and emptiness.
Isaiah 40:18 or what likeness compare with him?
Isaiah 40:19  An idol! A craftsman casts it, and a goldsmith overlays it with gold and casts for it silver chains.
Isaiah 40:20   that will not rot; he seeks out a skillful craftsman to set up an idol that will not move.
Isaiah 40:21  Do you not know? Do you not hear? Has it not been told you from the beginning? Have you not understood from the foundations of the earth?
Isaiah 40:22 It is he who sits above the circle of the earth, and its inhabitants arewho stretches out the heavens like a curtain, and spreads them like a tent to dwell in;
Isaiah 40:23  who brings princes to nothing, and makes the rulers of the earth as emptiness.
Isaiah 40:24 Scarcely are they planted, scarcely sown, scarcely has their stem taken root in the earth, when he blows on them, and they wither, and the tempest carries them off like stubble.
Isaiah 40:25  To whom then will you compare me, that I should be like him? says the Holy One.
Isaiah 40:26 Lift up your eyes on high and see: who created these? He who brings out their host by number, calling them all by name; by the greatness of his might and because he is strong in power, not one is missing.
Isaiah 40:27 Why do you say, O Jacob, and speak, O Israel, and my right is disregarded by my God”?
Isaiah 40:28 Have you not known? Have you not heard? The LORD ishis understanding is unsearchable.
Isaiah 40:29 He gives power to the faint, and to him who has no might he increases strength.
Isaiah 40:30 Even youths shall faint and be weary, and young men shall fall exhausted;
Isaiah 40:31 but like eagles; they shall run and not be weary; they shall walk and not faint.
Isaiah 41:1  O coastlands; let the peoples renew their strength; let them approach, then let them speak; let us together draw near for judgment.
Isaiah 41:2 like driven stubble with his bow.
Isaiah 41:3 He pursues them and passes on safely, by paths his feet have not trod.
Isaiah 41:4 I, the LORD, the first, and with the last; I am he.
Isaiah 41:5  The coastlands have seen and are afraid; the ends of the earth tremble; they have drawn near and come.
Isaiah 41:6 Everyone helps his neighbor and says to his brother, “Be strong!”
Isaiah 41:7  so that it cannot be moved.
Isaiah 41:8 But you, Israel, my friend;
Isaiah 41:9 you whom I took from the ends of the earth, and calledI have chosen you and not cast you off”;
Isaiah 41:10 fear not, for I am with you; be not dismayed, for I am your God; I will strengthen you, I will help you, I will uphold you with my righteous right hand.
Isaiah 41:11  Behold, all who are incensed against you shall be put to shame and confounded; those who strive against you shall be as nothing and shall perish.
Isaiah 41:12 those who war against you shall be as nothing at all.
Isaiah 41:13 For I, the LORD your God, hold your right hand; it is I who say to you, “Fear not, I am the one who helps you.”
Isaiah 41:14 Fear not, you Redeemer is the Holy One of Israel.
Isaiah 41:15  the mountains and crush them, and you shall make the hills like chaff;
Isaiah 41:16 And you shall rejoice in the LORD; in the Holy One of Israel you shall glory.
Isaiah 41:17  When the poor and needy seek water, and there is none, and their tongue is parched with thirst, I the LORD will answer them; I the God of Israel will not forsake them.
Isaiah 41:18 I will make the wilderness a pool of water, and the dry land springs of water.
Isaiah 41:19  the cypress, the plane and the pine together,
Isaiah 41:20 that they may see and know, may consider and understand together, that the hand of the LORD has done this, the Holy One of Israel has created it.
Isaiah 41:21 Set forth your case, says the LORD; bring your proofs, says the King of Jacob.
Isaiah 41:22 Let them bring them, and tell us what is to happen. Tell us the former things, what they are, that we may consider them, that we may know their outcome; or declare to us the things to come.
Isaiah 41:23
Isaiah 41:24 Behold, you are nothing, and your work is less than nothing; an abomination is he who chooses you.
Isaiah 41:25  and he shall call upon my name; he shall trample on rulers as on mortar, as the potter treads clay.
Isaiah 41:26  Who declared it from the beginning, that we might know, and beforehand, that we might say, “He is right”? There was none who declared it, none who proclaimed, none who heard your words.
Isaiah 41:27  I give to Jerusalem a herald of good news.
Isaiah 41:28  But when I look, there is no one; among these there is no counselor who, when I ask, gives an answer.
Isaiah 41:29  Behold, they are all a delusion; their works are nothing; their metal images are empty wind.
Isaiah 42:1 he will bring forth justice to the nations.
Isaiah 42:2 He will not cry aloud or lift up his voice, or make it heard in the street;
Isaiah 42:3 he will faithfully bring forth justice.
Isaiah 42:4 He will not grow faint or be discouraged the coastlands wait for his law.
Isaiah 42:5 Thus says God, the LORD, who created the heavenswho gives breath to the people on it and spirit to those who walk in it:
Isaiah 42:6 “I am the LORD;a light for the nations,
Isaiah 42:7 from the prison those who sit in darkness.
Isaiah 42:8 I am the LORD; that is my name; my glory I give to no other, nor my praise to carved idols.
Isaiah 42:9 Behold, the former things have come to pass, and new things I now declare; before they spring forth I tell you of them.”
Isaiah 42:10 the coastlands and their inhabitants.
Isaiah 42:11 Let the desert and its cities lift up their voice, the villages that Sela sing for joy, let them shout from the top of the mountains.
Isaiah 42:12 Let them give glory to the LORD, and declare his praise in the coastlands.
Isaiah 42:13  he shouts aloud, he shows himself mighty against his foes.
Isaiah 42:14 For a long time I have held my peace; I have kept still and restrained myself; now I will cry out like a woman in labor; I will gasp and pant.
Isaiah 42:15   and dry up the pools.
Isaiah 42:16 the rough places into level ground. These are the things I do, and I do not forsake them.
Isaiah 42:17  They are turned back and utterly put to shame, who trust in carved idols, who say to metal images, “You are our gods.”
Isaiah 42:18 Hear, you deaf, and look, you blind, that you may see!
Isaiah 42:19 Who is blind but my servant, or deaf as my messenger whom I send? Who is blind as my dedicated one,  or blind as the servant of the LORD?
Isaiah 42:20 his ears are open, but he does not hear.
Isaiah 42:21 The LORD was pleased, for his righteousness' sake, to magnify his law and make it glorious.
Isaiah 42:22 But this is a people plundered and looted; they are all of them trapped in holes and hidden in prisons; they have become plunder with none to rescue, spoil with none to say, “Restore!”
Isaiah 42:23 Who among you will give ear to this, will attend and listen for the time to come?
Isaiah 42:24 Who gave up Jacob to the looter, and Israel to the plunderers? Was it not the LORD, against whom we have sinned, in whose ways they would not walk, and whose law they would not obey?
Isaiah 42:25 So he poured on him the heat of his anger and the might of battle; it set him on fire all around, but he did not take it to heart.
Isaiah 43:1 But now thus says the LORD, I have called you by name, you are mine.
Isaiah 43:2  you shall not be burned, and the flame shall not consume you.
Isaiah 43:3 For Seba in exchange for you.
Isaiah 43:4 Because you are precious in my eyes, and honored, and I love you, I give men in return for you, peoples in exchange for your life.
Isaiah 43:5 I will bring your offspring from the east, and from the west I will gather you.
Isaiah 43:6 I will say to the north, Give up, and to the south, Do not withhold; bring my daughters from the end of the earth,
Isaiah 43:7 everyone who is called by my name, whom I created for my glory, whom I formed and made.”
Isaiah 43:8 Bring out the people who are blind, yet have eyes, who are deaf, yet have ears!
Isaiah 43:9  All the nations gather together, and the peoples assemble. Who among them can declare this, and show us the former things? Let them bring their witnesses to prove them right, and let them hear and say, It is true.
Isaiah 43:10 Before me no god was formed, nor shall there be any after me.
Isaiah 43:11  I, I am the LORD, and besides me there is no savior.
Isaiah 43:12 I declared and saved and proclaimed, when there was no strange god among you; and you are my witnesses,” declares the LORD, “and I am God.
Isaiah 43:13 Also henceforth I am he; there is none who can deliver from my hand; I work, and who can turn it back?”
Isaiah 43:14 Thus says the LORD, your Redeemer, the Holy One of Israel: even the Chaldeans, in the ships in which they rejoice.
Isaiah 43:15 I am the LORD, your Holy One, the Creator of Israel, your King.”
Isaiah 43:16 Thus says the LORD, who makes a way in the sea, a path in the mighty waters,
Isaiah 43:17 who quenched like a wick:
Isaiah 43:18  “Remember not the former things, nor consider the things of old.
Isaiah 43:19 and rivers in the desert.
Isaiah 43:20 The wild beasts will honor me, for I give water in the wilderness, rivers in the desert, to give drink to my chosen people,
Isaiah 43:21 the people whom I formed for myself that they might declare my praise.
Isaiah 43:22 “Yet you did not call upon me, O Jacob; but you have been weary of me, O Israel!
Isaiah 43:23 or wearied you with frankincense.
Isaiah 43:24 You have not bought me sweet cane with money, or satisfied me with the fat of your sacrifices. But you have burdened me with your sins; you have wearied me with your iniquities.
Isaiah 43:25 “I, I am he  your transgressions for my own sake, and I will not remember your sins.
Isaiah 43:26 Put me in remembrance; let us argue together; set forth your case, that you may be proved right.
Isaiah 43:27  your mediators transgressed against me.
Isaiah 43:28 Therefore deliver Jacob to utter destruction and Israel to reviling.
Isaiah 44:1 “But now hear, O Jacob my servant, Israel whom I have chosen!
Isaiah 44:2 Thus says the LORD who made you, Jeshurun whom I have chosen.
Isaiah 44:3  For I will pour water on the thirsty land, and streams on the dry ground; I will pour my Spirit upon your offspring, and my blessing on your descendants.
Isaiah 44:4 They shall spring up among the grass like willows by flowing streams.
Isaiah 44:5  This one will say, ‘I am the LORD's,’ another will call on the name of Jacob, and another will write on his hand, ‘The LORD's,’ and name himself by the name of Israel.”
Isaiah 44:6 Thus says the LORD, the King of Israel and“I am the first and I am the last; besides me there is no god.
Isaiah 44:7   Let him declare and set it before me, since I appointed an ancient people. Let them declare what is to come, and what will happen.
Isaiah 44:8 Fear not, nor be afraid; have I not told you from of old and declared it?  Rock; I know not any.”
Isaiah 44:9  All who fashion idols are nothing, and the things they delight in do not profit. Their witnesses neither see nor know, that they may be put to shame.
Isaiah 44:10  Who fashions a god or casts an idol that is profitable for nothing?
Isaiah 44:11  Behold, all his companions shall be put to shame, and the craftsmen are only human. Let them all assemble, let them stand forth. They shall be terrified; they shall be put to shame together.
Isaiah 44:12  The ironsmith takes a cutting tool and works it over the coals. He fashions it with hammers and works it with his strong arm. He becomes hungry, and his strength fails; he drinks no water and is faint.
Isaiah 44:13 The carpenter stretches a line; he marks it out with a pencil. He shapes it into the figure of a man, with the beauty of a man, to dwell in a house.
Isaiah 44:14  He cuts down cedars, or he chooses a cypress tree or an oak and lets it grow strong among the trees of the forest. He plants a cedar and the rain nourishes it.
Isaiah 44:15 Then it becomes fuel for a man. He takes a part of it and warms himself; he kindles a fire and bakes bread. Also he makes a god and worships it; he makes it an idol and falls down before it.
Isaiah 44:16 Half of it he burns in the fire. Over the half he eats meat; he roasts it and is satisfied. Also he warms himself and says, “Aha, I am warm, I have seen the fire!”
Isaiah 44:17 And the rest of it he makes into a god, his idol, and falls down to it and worships it. He prays to it and says, “Deliver me, for you are my god!”
Isaiah 44:18 They know not, nor do they discern, for he has shut their eyes, so that they cannot see, and their hearts, so that they cannot understand.
Isaiah 44:19 No one considers, nor is there knowledge or discernment to say, “Half of it I burned in the fire; I also baked bread on its coals; I roasted meat and have eaten. And shall I make the rest of it an abomination? Shall I fall down before a block of wood?”
Isaiah 44:20  a lie in my right hand?”
Isaiah 44:21 Remember these things, O Jacob, and Israel, for you areO Israel, you will not be forgotten by me.
Isaiah 44:22  I have blotted out your transgressions like a cloud and your sins like mist; return to me, for I have redeemed you.
Isaiah 44:23   in Israel.
Isaiah 44:24 Thus says the LORD,who alone stretched out the heavens, who spread out the earth by myself,
Isaiah 44:25 who frustrates the signs of liars and makes fools of diviners, who turns wise men back and makes their knowledge foolish,
Isaiah 44:26 and of the cities of Judah, ‘They shall be built, and I will raise up their ruins’;
Isaiah 44:27  who says to the deep, ‘Be dry; I will dry up your rivers’;
Isaiah 44:28 who says ofand of the temple, ‘Your foundation shall be laid.’”
Isaiah 45:1 Thus says the LORD to to loose the belts of kings, to open doors before him that gates may not be closed:
Isaiah 45:2 “I will go before you andI will break in pieces the doors of bronze and cut through the bars of iron,
Isaiah 45:3  who call you by your name.
Isaiah 45:4 For the sake of my servant Jacob, and Israel my chosen, I name you, though you do not know me.
Isaiah 45:5 I equip you, though you do not know me,
Isaiah 45:6  that people may know, from the rising of the sun and from the west, that there is none besides me; I am the LORD, and there is no other.
Isaiah 45:7 I form light and create darkness; I make well-being and create calamity; I am the LORD, who does all these things.
Isaiah 45:8  let the clouds rain down righteousness; let the earth open, that salvation and righteousness may bear fruit; let the earth cause them both to sprout; I the LORD have created it.
Isaiah 45:9 Does the clay say to him who forms it, ‘What are you making?’ or ‘Your work has no handles’?
Isaiah 45:10 Woe to him who says to a father, ‘What are you begetting?’ or to a woman, ‘With what are you in labor?’”
Isaiah 45:11 Thus says
Isaiah 45:12  I commanded all their host.
Isaiah 45:13 and set my exiles free, not for price or reward,” says the LORD of hosts.
Isaiah 45:14 Thus says the LORD:  and be yours; they shall follow you; they shall come over in chains and bow down to you. They will plead with you, saying: ‘Surely God is in you, and there is no other, no god besides him.’”
Isaiah 45:15  Truly, you are a God who hides himself, O God of Israel, the Savior.
Isaiah 45:16  All of them are put to shame and confounded; the makers of idols go in confusion together.
Isaiah 45:17 But Israel is saved by the LORD with everlasting salvation; you shall not be put to shame or confounded to all eternity.
Isaiah 45:18 he formed it to be inhabited!): “I am the LORD, and there is no other.
Isaiah 45:19  the truth; I declare what is right.
Isaiah 45:20 and keep on praying to a god that cannot save.
Isaiah 45:21  and a Savior; there is none besides me.
Isaiah 45:22 “Turn to me and be saved, all the ends of the earth! For I am God, and there is no other.
Isaiah 45:23
Isaiah 45:24 all who were incensed against him.
Isaiah 45:25 In the LORD all the offspring of Israel shall be justified and shall glory.”
Isaiah 46:1  Bel bows down; Nebo stoops; their idols are on beasts and livestock; these things you carry are borne as burdens on weary beasts.
Isaiah 46:2 They stoop; they bow down together; they cannot save the burden, but themselves go into captivity.
Isaiah 46:3 “Listen to me, O house of Jacob, all the remnant of the house of Israel, who have been borne by me from before your birth, carried from the womb;
Isaiah 46:4  even to your old age I am he, and to gray hairs I will carry you. I have made, and I will bear; I will carry and will save.
Isaiah 46:5  “To whom will you liken me and make me equal, and compare me, that we may be alike?
Isaiah 46:6 then they fall down and worship!
Isaiah 46:7 it cannot move from its place. If one cries to it, it does not answer or save him from his trouble.
Isaiah 46:8 “Remember this and stand firm, recall it to mind, you transgressors,
Isaiah 46:9 remember the former things of old; for I am God, and there is no other; I am God, and there is none like me,
Isaiah 46:10  ‘My counsel shall stand, and I will accomplish all my purpose,’
Isaiah 46:11 I have spoken, and I will bring it to pass; I have purposed, and I will do it.
Isaiah 46:12 “Listen to me, you stubborn of heart, you who are far from righteousness:
Isaiah 46:13 I will put salvation in Zion, for Israel my glory.”
Isaiah 47:1 For you shall no more be called tender and delicate.
Isaiah 47:2 Take the millstones andput off your veil, strip off your robe, uncover your legs, pass through the rivers.
Isaiah 47:3 Your nakedness shall be uncovered, and your disgrace shall be seen. I will take vengeance, and I will spare no one.
Isaiah 47:4  Our Redeemer — the LORD of hosts is his name — is the Holy One of Israel.
Isaiah 47:5 the mistress of kingdoms.
Isaiah 47:6 you showed them no mercy; on the aged you made your yoke exceedingly heavy.
Isaiah 47:7 You said, “I shall be mistress forever,” so that you did not lay these things to heart or remember their end.
Isaiah 47:8 Now therefore hear this,I shall not sit as a widow or know the loss of children”:
Isaiah 47:9 in spite of your many sorceries and the great power of your enchantments.
Isaiah 47:10 You felt secure in your wickedness; you said, “No one sees me”; your wisdom and your knowledge led you astray, and you said in your heart, “I am, and there is no one besides me.”
Isaiah 47:11 But evil shall come upon you, which you will not know how to charm away; disaster shall fall upon you, for which you will not be able to atone; and ruin shall come upon you suddenly, of which you know nothing.
Isaiah 47:12  Stand fast in your enchantments and your many sorceries, with which you have labored from your youth; perhaps you may be able to succeed; perhaps you may inspire terror.
Isaiah 47:13 You are wearied with your many counsels; let them stand forth and save you, those who divide the heavens, who gaze at the stars, who at the new moons make known what shall come upon you.
Isaiah 47:14 Behold,the fire consumes them; they cannot deliver themselves from the power of the flame. No coal for warming oneself is this, no fire to sit before!
Isaiah 47:15 Such to you are those with whom you have labored, who have done business with you from your youth; they wander about, each in his own direction; there is no one to save you.
Isaiah 48:1 Hear this, O house of Jacob, who swear by the name of the LORD and confess the God of Israel, but not in truth or right.
Isaiah 48:2 For they call themselves after the holy city, and stay themselves on the God of Israel; the LORD of hosts is his name.
Isaiah 48:3 “The former things I declared of old; they went out from my mouth, and I announced them; then suddenly I did them, and they came to pass.
Isaiah 48:4 Because I know that you are obstinate, and your neck is an iron sinew and your forehead brass,
Isaiah 48:5  ‘My idol did them, my carved image and my metal image commanded them.’
Isaiah 48:6 “You have heard; now see all this; and will you not declare it? From this time forth I announce to you new things, hidden things that you have not known.
Isaiah 48:7 They are created now, not long ago; before today you have never heard of them, lest you should say, ‘Behold, I knew them.’
Isaiah 48:8 You have never heard, you have never known, from of old your ear has not been opened. For I knew that you would surely deal treacherously, and that from before birth you were called a rebel.
Isaiah 48:9  “For my name's sake I defer my anger; for the sake of my praise I restrain it for you, that I may not cut you off.
Isaiah 48:10 Behold, I have refined you,  you in the furnace of affliction.
Isaiah 48:11 My glory I will not give to another.
Isaiah 48:12 “Listen to me, O Jacob, and Israel, whom I called! I am he; I am the first, and I am the last.
Isaiah 48:13 My handwhen I call to them, they stand forth together.
Isaiah 48:14 “Assemble, all of you, and listen!  the Chaldeans.
Isaiah 48:15  I, even I, have spoken and called him; I have brought him, and he will prosper in his way.
Isaiah 48:16  the Lord GOD has sent me, and his Spirit.
Isaiah 48:17 Thus says the LORD, your Redeemer, the Holy One of Israel: “I am the LORD your God, who teaches you to profit, who leads you in the way you should go.
Isaiah 48:18 Then your peace would have been like a river, and your righteousness like the waves of the sea;
Isaiah 48:19  your offspring would have been like the sand, and your descendants like its grains; their name would never be cut off or destroyed from before me.”
Isaiah 48:20  “The LORD has redeemed his servant Jacob!”
Isaiah 48:21 he made water flow for them from the rock; he split the rock and the water gushed out.
Isaiah 48:22  “There is no peace,” says the LORD, “for the wicked.”
Isaiah 49:1 Listen to me,The LORD called me from the womb, from the body of my mother he named my name.
Isaiah 49:2 in the shadow of his hand he hid me; he made me a polished arrow; in his quiver he hid me away.
Isaiah 49:3 And he said to me, “You are my servant, Israel,
Isaiah 49:4  But I said, “I have labored in vain; I have spent my strength for nothing and vanity; yet surely my right is with the LORD, and my recompense with my God.”
Isaiah 49:5  I am honored in the eyes of the LORD, and my God has become my strength —
Isaiah 49:6 he says: “It is too light a thing that you should be my servant to raise up the tribes of Jacob and to bring back the preserved of Israel;  my salvation may reach to the end of the earth.”
Isaiah 49:7 Thus says the LORD, “Kings shall see and arise; princes, and they shall prostrate themselves; because of the LORD, who is faithful, the Holy One of Israel, who has chosen you.”
Isaiah 49:8 Thus says the LORD: to apportion the desolate heritages,
Isaiah 49:9 They shall feed along the ways; on all bare heights shall be their pasture;
Isaiah 49:10  will lead them, and by springs of water will guide them.
Isaiah 49:11  And I will make all my mountains a road, and my highways shall be raised up.
Isaiah 49:12
Isaiah 49:13  has comforted his people and will have compassion on his afflicted.
Isaiah 49:14 But Zion said, “The LORD has forsaken me; my Lord has forgotten me.”
Isaiah 49:15  “Can a woman forget her nursing child, that she should have no compassion on the son of her womb? Even these may forget, yet I will not forget you.
Isaiah 49:16 Behold, I have engraved you on the palms of my hands; your walls are continually before me.
Isaiah 49:17 Your builders make haste;your destroyers and those who laid you waste go out from you.
Isaiah 49:18 you shall put them all on as an ornament; you shall bind them on as a bride does.
Isaiah 49:19 “Surely your waste and your desolate places and your devastated land — surely now you will be too narrow for your inhabitants, and those who swallowed you up will be far away.
Isaiah 49:20 ‘The place is too narrow for me; make room for me to dwell in.’
Isaiah 49:21 Then you will say in your heart: ‘Who has borne me these? I was bereaved and barren, exiled and put away, but who has brought up these? Behold, I was left alone; from where have these come?’”
Isaiah 49:22 Thus says the Lord GOD: “Behold, I will lift up my hand to the nations,   and your daughters shall be carried on their shoulders.
Isaiah 49:23  shall not be put to shame.”
Isaiah 49:24 Can the prey be taken from the mighty, or the captives of a tyrant  be rescued?
Isaiah 49:25 For thus says the LORD: “Even the captives of the mighty shall be taken, and the prey of the tyrant be rescued, for I will contend with those who contend with you, and I will save your children.
Isaiah 49:26  I am the LORD your Savior, and your Redeemer, the Mighty One of Jacob.”
Isaiah 50:1 Thus says the LORD: “Where isBehold, for your iniquities you were sold, and for your transgressions your mother was sent away.
Isaiah 50:2 their fish stink for lack of water and die of thirst.
Isaiah 50:3  I clothe the heavens with blackness and make sackcloth their covering.”
Isaiah 50:4 The Lord GOD has givenhim who is weary. Morning by morning he awakens; he awakens my ear to hear as those who are taught.
Isaiah 50:5 and I was not rebellious; I turned not backward.
Isaiah 50:6  I gave my back to those who strike, and my cheeks to those who pull out the beard; I hid not my face from disgrace and spitting.
Isaiah 50:7 But the Lord GOD helps me; therefore I have not been disgraced; therefore I have set my face like a flint, and I know that I shall not be put to shame.
Isaiah 50:8  He who vindicates me is near. Who will contend with me? Let us stand up together. Who is my adversary? Let him come near to me.
Isaiah 50:9  Behold, the Lord GOD helps me; who will declare me guilty? Behold, all of them will wear out like a garment; the moth will eat them up.
Isaiah 50:10 Who among you fears the LORD and obeysLet him who walks in darkness and has no light trust in the name of the LORD and rely on his God.
Isaiah 50:11 Behold, all you who kindle a fire, who equip yourselves with burning torches! Walk by the light of your fire, and by the torches that you have kindled! This you have from my hand: you shall lie down in torment.
Isaiah 51:1  “Listen to me, you who pursue righteousness, you who seek the LORD: look to the rock from which you were hewn, and to the quarry from which you were dug.
Isaiah 51:2 Look to Abraham your father and to Sarah who bore you; for he was but one when I called him, that I might bless him and multiply him.
Isaiah 51:3 For the LORDjoy and gladness will be found in her, thanksgiving and the voice of song.
Isaiah 51:4   will go out from me, and I will set my justice for a light to the peoples.
Isaiah 51:5 the coastlands hope for me, and for my arm they wait.
Isaiah 51:6 but my salvation will be forever, and my righteousness will never be dismayed.
Isaiah 51:7 fear not the reproach of man, nor be dismayed at their revilings.
Isaiah 51:8 but my righteousness will be forever, and my salvation to all generations.”
Isaiah 51:9  the dragon?
Isaiah 51:10  Was it not you who dried up the sea, the waters of the great deep, who made the depths of the sea a way for the redeemed to pass over?
Isaiah 51:11  And the ransomed of the LORD shall return and come to Zion with singing; everlasting joy shall be upon their heads; they shall obtain gladness and joy, and sorrow and sighing shall flee away.
Isaiah 51:12 “I, I am he like grass,
Isaiah 51:13 and have forgotten the LORD, your Maker,  the oppressor?
Isaiah 51:14  to the pit, neither shall his bread be lacking.
Isaiah 51:15 I am the LORD your God, who stirs up the sea so that its waves roar — the LORD of hosts is his name.
Isaiah 51:16  laying the foundations of the earth, and saying to Zion, ‘You are my people.’”
Isaiah 51:17  the cup of staggering.
Isaiah 51:18  There is none to guide her among all the sons she has borne; there is none to take her by the hand among all the sons she has brought up.
Isaiah 51:19
Isaiah 51:20  in a net; they are full of the wrath of the LORD, the rebuke of your God.
Isaiah 51:21  Therefore hear this, you who are afflicted, who are drunk, but not with wine:
Isaiah 51:22 Thus says your Lord, the LORD, your God the cup of staggering; the bowl of my wrath you shall drink no more;
Isaiah 51:23  you have made your back like the ground and like the street for them to pass over.”
Isaiah 52:1 for there shall no more come into you the uncircumcised and the unclean.
Isaiah 52:2 loose the bonds from your neck, O captive daughter of Zion.
Isaiah 52:3 For thus says the LORD: you shall be redeemed without money.”
Isaiah 52:4 For thus says the Lord GOD:
Isaiah 52:5 Now therefore what have I here,” declares the LORD, “seeing that my people are taken away for nothing? Their rulers wail,” declares the LORD, “and continually all the day my name is despised.
Isaiah 52:6 Therefore my people shall know my name. Therefore in that day they shall know that it is I who speak; here I am.”
Isaiah 52:7  who brings good news of happiness, who publishes salvation, who says to Zion, “Your God reigns.”
Isaiah 52:8 The voice offor eye to eye they see the return of the LORD to Zion.
Isaiah 52:9  the LORD has comforted his people; he has redeemed Jerusalem.
Isaiah 52:10 and all the ends of the earth shall see the salvation of our God.
Isaiah 52:11 you who bear the vessels of the LORD.
Isaiah 52:12 For you shall notand the God of Israel will be your rear guard.
Isaiah 52:13 Behold,  he shall be high and lifted up, and shall be exalted.
Isaiah 52:14 As many were astonished at you — his appearance was so marred, beyond human semblance, and his form beyond that of the children of mankind —
Isaiah 52:15 sofor that which has not been told them they see, and that which they have not heard they understand.
Isaiah 53:1  the arm of the LORD been revealed?
Isaiah 53:2 For he grew up before him like a young plant, he had no form or majesty that we should look at him, and no beauty that we should desire him.
Isaiah 53:3  we esteemed him not.
Isaiah 53:4 smitten by God, and afflicted.
Isaiah 53:5 and with his wounds we are healed.
Isaiah 53:6 and the LORD has laid on him the iniquity of us all.
Isaiah 53:7 He was oppressed, and he was afflicted,  lamb that is led to the slaughter, and like a sheep that before its shearers is silent, so he opened not his mouth.
Isaiah 53:8 By oppression and judgment he was taken away; and as for his generation, who considered that he was cut off out of the land of the living, stricken for the transgression of my people?
Isaiah 53:9 And they made his grave with the wicked  he had done no violence, and there was no deceit in his mouth.
Isaiah 53:10 Yetthe will of the LORD shall prosper in his hand.
Isaiah 53:11 Out of the anguish of his soul he shall seeand he shall bear their iniquities.
Isaiah 53:12 yet he bore the sin of many, and makes intercession for the transgressors.
Isaiah 54:1  will be more than the children of her who is married,” says the LORD.
Isaiah 54:2  “Enlarge the place of your tent, and let the curtains of your habitations be stretched out; do not hold back; lengthen your cords and strengthen your stakes.
Isaiah 54:3  For you will spread abroad to the right and to the left, and your offspring will possess the nations and will people the desolate cities.
Isaiah 54:4 “Fear not, for you will not be ashamed; be not confounded, for you will not be disgraced; for you will forget the shame of your youth, and the reproach of your widowhood you will remember no more.
Isaiah 54:5 the God of the whole earth he is called.
Isaiah 54:6  For the LORD has called you like a wife deserted and grieved in spirit, like a wife of youth when she is cast off, says your God.
Isaiah 54:7  For a brief moment I deserted you, but with great compassion I will gather you.
Isaiah 54:8 but with everlasting love I will have compassion on you,” says the LORD, your Redeemer.
Isaiah 54:9 “This is like  to me: as I swore that the waters of Noah should no more go over the earth, so I have sworn that I will not be angry with you, and will not rebuke you.
Isaiah 54:10 For the mountains may depart and the hills be removed, but my steadfast love shall not depart from you, and my covenant of peace shall not be removed,” says the LORD, who has compassion on you.
Isaiah 54:11
Isaiah 54:12 I will make your pinnacles of agate,  and all your wall of precious stones.
Isaiah 54:13 and great shall be the peace of your children.
Isaiah 54:14 In righteousness you shall be established; you shall be far from oppression, for you shall not fear; and from terror, for it shall not come near you.
Isaiah 54:15  If anyone stirs up strife, it is not from me; whoever stirs up strife with you shall fall because of you.
Isaiah 54:16 Behold, I have created the smith who blows the fire of coals and produces a weapon for its purpose. I have also created the ravager to destroy;
Isaiah 54:17 no weapon that is fashioned against you shall succeed, and you shall refute every tongue that rises against you in judgment. This is the heritage of the servants of the LORD   from me, declares the LORD.”
Isaiah 55:1 come, buy and eat! Come, buy wine and milk without money and without price.
Isaiah 55:2  Why do you spend your money for that which is not bread, and your labor for that which does not satisfy? Listen diligently to me, and eat what is good, and delight yourselves in rich food.
Isaiah 55:3 Incline your ear, and come to me;  David.
Isaiah 55:4 a leader and commander for the peoples.
Isaiah 55:5 for he has glorified you.
Isaiah 55:6  “Seek the LORD while he may be found; call upon him while he is near;
Isaiah 55:7 let the wicked forsake his way, and the unrighteous man his thoughts; let him return to the LORD, that he may have compassion on him, and to our God, for he will abundantly pardon.
Isaiah 55:8 For my thoughts are not your thoughts, neither are your ways my ways, declares the LORD.
Isaiah 55:9  For as the heavens are higher than the earth, so are my ways higher than your ways and my thoughts than your thoughts.
Isaiah 55:10 giving seed to the sower and bread to the eater,
Isaiah 55:11 so shall my word be that goes out from my mouth; it shall not return to me empty, but it shall accomplish that which I purpose, and shall succeed in the thing for which I sent it.
Isaiah 55:12 the mountains and the hills before you shall break forth into singing, and all the trees of the field shall clap their hands.
Isaiah 55:13  Instead of the thorn shall come up the cypress; instead of the brier shall come up the myrtle; and it shall make a name for the LORD, an everlasting sign that shall not be cut off.”
Isaiah 56:1 Thus says the LORD: “Keep justice, and do righteousness, for soon my salvation will come, and my righteousness be revealed.
Isaiah 56:2 Blessed is the man who does this, and the son of man who holds it fast, who keeps the Sabbath, not profaning it, and keeps his hand from doing any evil.”
Isaiah 56:3 Let not a dry tree.”
Isaiah 56:4 For thus says the LORD: “To the eunuchs who keep my Sabbaths, who choose the things that please me and hold fast my covenant,
Isaiah 56:5 I will give them an everlasting name that shall not be cut off.
Isaiah 56:6 “And who keeps the Sabbath and does not profane it, and holds fast my covenant —
Isaiah 56:7  my house shall be called a house of prayer for all peoples.”
Isaiah 56:8 The Lord GOD, “I will gather yet others to him besides those already gathered.”
Isaiah 56:9  All you beasts of the field, come to devour — all you beasts in the forest.
Isaiah 56:10  dogs; they cannot bark, dreaming, lying down, loving to slumber.
Isaiah 56:11 each to his own gain, one and all.
Isaiah 56:12 and tomorrow will be like this day, great beyond measure.”
Isaiah 57:1 The righteous man perishes, and no one lays it to heart; devout men are taken away, while no one understands. For the righteous man is taken away from calamity;
Isaiah 57:2  in their beds who walk in their uprightness.
Isaiah 57:3 But you, draw near, sons of the sorceress, offspring of the adulterer and the loose woman.
Isaiah 57:4 Whom are you mocking? Against whomthe offspring of deceit,
Isaiah 57:5 you who burn with lust amongwho slaughter your children in the valleys, under the clefts of the rocks?
Isaiah 57:6 Among the smooth stones of the valley is your portion; they, they, are your lot; to them you have poured out a drink offering, you have brought a grain offering. Shall I relent for these things?
Isaiah 57:7  On a high and lofty mountain you have set your bed, and there you went up to offer sacrifice.
Isaiah 57:8 Behind the door and the doorpost you have set up your memorial; for, deserting me,
Isaiah 57:9 You journeyed to the king with oil and multiplied your perfumes; you sent your envoys far off, and sent down even to Sheol.
Isaiah 57:10 You were wearied with the length of your way,
Isaiah 57:11 Have I not held my peace, even for a long time, and you do not fear me?
Isaiah 57:12 I will declare your righteousness and your deeds, but they will not profit you.
Isaiah 57:13  my holy mountain.
Isaiah 57:14 And it shall be said, “Build up, build up, prepare the way, remove every obstruction from my people's way.”
Isaiah 57:15 For thus saysto revive the spirit of the lowly, and to revive the heart of the contrite.
Isaiah 57:16  For I will not contend forever, nor will I always be angry; for the spirit would grow faint before me, and the breath of life that I made.
Isaiah 57:17 Because of the iniquity of his unjust gain I was angry, I struck him; I hid my face and was angry, but he went on backsliding in the way of his own heart.
Isaiah 57:18 I have seen his ways, and restore comfort to him and his mourners,
Isaiah 57:19 “and I will heal him.
Isaiah 57:20  But the wicked are like the tossing sea; for it cannot be quiet, and its waters toss up mire and dirt.
Isaiah 57:21  There is no peace,” says my God, “for the wicked.”
Isaiah 58:1 “Cry aloud; do not hold back; declare to my people their transgression, to the house of Jacob their sins.
Isaiah 58:2  Yet they seek me daily and delight to know my ways, as if they were a nation that did righteousness and did not forsake the judgment of their God; they ask of me righteous judgments; they delight to draw near to God.
Isaiah 58:3 and oppress all your workers.
Isaiah 58:4 Behold, you fast only to quarrel and to fight and to hit with a wicked fist. Fasting like yours this day will not make your voice to be heard on high.
Isaiah 58:5 a day for a person to humble himself? Is it to bow down his head like a reed, and to spread sackcloth and ashes under him? Will you call this a fast, and a day acceptable to the LORD?
Isaiah 58:6 “Is not this the fast that I choose:   go free, and to break every yoke?
Isaiah 58:7 Is it notand not to hide yourself from your own flesh?
Isaiah 58:8 the glory of the LORD shall be your rear guard.
Isaiah 58:9 Then you shall call, and the LORD will answer; you shall cry, and he will say, ‘Here I am.’ If you take awaythe pointing of the finger, and speaking wickedness,
Isaiah 58:10 then shall your light rise in the darkness and your gloom be as the noonday.
Isaiah 58:11 And the LORD will guide you continually and satisfy your desire in scorched places and make your bones strong; and you shall be like a watered garden, like a spring of water, whose waters do not fail.
Isaiah 58:12  And your ancient ruins shall be rebuilt; you shall raise up the foundations of many generations; you shall be called the repairer of the breach, the restorer of streets to dwell in.
Isaiah 58:13
Isaiah 58:14 then you shall take delight in the LORD, for the mouth of the LORD has spoken.”
Isaiah 59:1 Behold, the LORD's hand is not shortened, that it cannot save, or his ear dull, that it cannot hear;
Isaiah 59:2  but your iniquities have made a separation between you and your God, and your sins have hidden his face from you so that he does not hear.
Isaiah 59:3  For your hands are defiled with blood and your fingers with iniquity; your lips have spoken lies; your tongue mutters wickedness.
Isaiah 59:4 they conceive mischief and give birth to iniquity.
Isaiah 59:5 They hatch adders' eggs; they weave the spider's web; he who eats their eggs dies, and from one that is crushed a viper is hatched.
Isaiah 59:6  Their webs will not serve as clothing; men will not cover themselves with what they make. Their works are works of iniquity, and deeds of violence are in their hands.
Isaiah 59:7  Their feet run to evil, and they are swift to shed innocent blood; their thoughts are thoughts of iniquity; desolation and destruction are in their highways.
Isaiah 59:8 The way of peace they do not know, and there is no justice in their paths; they have made their roads crooked; no one who treads on them knows peace.
Isaiah 59:9 Therefore justice is far from us, and righteousness does not overtake us; we hope for light, and behold, darkness, and for brightness, but we walk in gloom.
Isaiah 59:10 among those in full vigor we are like dead men.
Isaiah 59:11 We all growl like bears; we hope for justice, but there is none; for salvation, but it is far from us.
Isaiah 59:12 For our transgressions are multiplied before you, and our sins testify against us; for our transgressions are with us, and we know our iniquities:
Isaiah 59:13 transgressing, and denying the LORD, and turning back from following our God, speaking oppression and revolt, conceiving and uttering from the heart lying words.
Isaiah 59:14  Justice is turned back, and righteousness stands far away; for truth has stumbled in the public squares, and uprightness cannot enter.
Isaiah 59:15 Truth is lacking, and he who departs from evil makes himself a prey.  The LORD saw it, and it displeased him  that there was no justice.
Isaiah 59:16  He saw that there was no man, and wondered that there was no one to intercede; then his own arm brought him salvation, and his righteousness upheld him.
Isaiah 59:17  zeal as a cloak.
Isaiah 59:18 to the coastlands he will render repayment.
Isaiah 59:19   which the wind of the LORD drives.
Isaiah 59:20  a Redeemer will come to Zion, to those in Jacob who turn from transgression,” declares the LORD.
Isaiah 59:21 “And as for me, and my words that I have put in your mouth, shall not depart out of your mouth, or out of the mouth of your offspring, or out of the mouth of your children's offspring,” says the LORD, “from this time forth and forevermore.”
Isaiah 60:1  the glory of the LORD has risen upon you.
Isaiah 60:2 For behold, darkness shall cover the earth, and thick darkness the peoples; but the LORD will arise upon you, and his glory will be seen upon you.
Isaiah 60:3  And nations shall come to your light, and kings to the brightness of your rising.
Isaiah 60:4 your sons shall come from afar, and your daughters shall be carried on the hip.
Isaiah 60:5 Then you shall see andthe wealth of the nations shall come to you.
Isaiah 60:6 A multitude of camels shall cover you, the young camels ofThey shall bring gold and frankincense, and shall bring good news, the praises of the LORD.
Isaiah 60:7 All the flocks ofand I will beautify my beautiful house.
Isaiah 60:8 Who are these that fly like a cloud, and like doves to their windows?
Isaiah 60:9 For he has made you beautiful.
Isaiah 60:10  their kings shall minister to you; for in my wrath I struck you, but in my favor I have had mercy on you.
Isaiah 60:11 that people may bring to you the wealth of the nations, with their kings led in procession.
Isaiah 60:12  For the nation and kingdom that will not serve you shall perish; those nations shall be utterly laid waste.
Isaiah 60:13  the pine, to beautify the place of my sanctuary, and I will make the place of my feet glorious.
Isaiah 60:14 they shall call you the City of the LORD, the Zion of the Holy One of Israel.
Isaiah 60:15 I will make you majestic forever, a joy from age to age.
Isaiah 60:16  the Mighty One of Jacob.
Isaiah 60:17 Instead of bronze I will bring gold, and instead of iron I will bring silver; instead of wood, bronze, instead of stones, iron. I will make your overseers peace and your taskmasters righteousness.
Isaiah 60:18 you shall call your walls Salvation, and your gates Praise.
Isaiah 60:19
Isaiah 60:20 Your sun shall no more go down, nor your moon withdraw itself; for the LORD will be your everlasting light, and your days of mourning shall be ended.
Isaiah 60:21
Isaiah 60:22 I am the LORD; in its time I will hasten it.
Isaiah 61:1
Isaiah 61:2 and the day of vengeance of our God; to comfort all who mourn;
Isaiah 61:3 to grant to those who mourn in Zion —
Isaiah 61:4  They shall build up the ancient ruins; they shall raise up the former devastations; they shall repair the ruined cities, the devastations of many generations.
Isaiah 61:5  Strangers shall stand and tend your flocks; foreigners shall be your plowmen and vinedressers;
Isaiah 61:6 you shall eat the wealth of the nations, and in their glory you shall boast.
Isaiah 61:7  Instead of your shame there shall be a double portion; instead of dishonor they shall rejoice in their lot; therefore in their land they shall possess a double portion; they shall have everlasting joy.
Isaiah 61:8 and I will make an everlasting covenant with them.
Isaiah 61:9 Their offspring shall be known among the nations, and their descendants in the midst of the peoples; all who see them shall acknowledge them, that they are an offspring the LORD has blessed.
Isaiah 61:10 and as a bride adorns herself with her jewels.
Isaiah 61:11 For as the earth brings forth its sprouts, and as a garden causes what is sown in it to sprout up, so the Lord GOD will cause righteousness and praise to sprout up before all the nations.
Isaiah 62:1 until her righteousness goes forth as brightness, and her salvation as a burning torch.
Isaiah 62:2 and you shall be called by a new name that the mouth of the LORD will give.
Isaiah 62:3 You shall be a crown of beauty in the hand of the LORD, and a royal diadem in the hand of your God.
Isaiah 62:4   for the LORD delights in you, and your land shall be married.
Isaiah 62:5 For as a young man marries a young woman, so shall your God rejoice over you.
Isaiah 62:6 On your walls, O Jerusalem, I have set watchmen; all the day and all the night they shall never be silent. You who put the LORD in remembrance, take no rest,
Isaiah 62:7 and give him no rest until he establishes Jerusalem and makes it a praise in the earth.
Isaiah 62:8 The LORD has swornand foreigners shall not drink your wine for which you have labored;
Isaiah 62:9 but
Isaiah 62:10 Go through, go through the gates; lift up a signal over the peoples.
Isaiah 62:11 Behold, the LORD has proclaimed to the end of the earth: “Behold, your salvation comes; behold, his reward is with him, and his recompense before him.”
Isaiah 62:12 and you shall be called Sought Out, A City Not Forsaken.
Isaiah 63:1 Who is this who comes frommarching in the greatness of his strength? “It is I, speaking in righteousness, mighty to save.”
Isaiah 63:2 Why is your who treads in the winepress?
Isaiah 63:3   spattered on my garments, and stained all my apparel.
Isaiah 63:4   had come.
Isaiah 63:5 I looked, but there was no one to help; I was appalled, but there was no one to uphold; so my own arm brought me salvation, and my wrath upheld me.
Isaiah 63:6 I trampled down the peoples in my anger; I made them drunk in my wrath, and I poured out their lifeblood on the earth.”
Isaiah 63:7 I will recount the steadfast love of the LORD, the praises of the LORD, according to all that the LORD has granted us, and the great goodness to the house of Israel that he has granted them according to his compassion, according to the abundance of his steadfast love.
Isaiah 63:8 For he said, “Surely they are my people, children who will not deal falsely.” And he became their Savior.
Isaiah 63:9 he lifted them up and carried them all the days of old.
Isaiah 63:10 and grieved his Holy Spirit; therefore he turned to be their enemy, and himself fought against them.
Isaiah 63:11 Then he rememberedWhere is he who brought them up out of the sea with the shepherds of his flock? Where is he who put in the midst of them his Holy Spirit,
Isaiah 63:12 who caused his glorious arm to go at the right hand of Moses, to make for himself an everlasting name,
Isaiah 63:13 who led them through the depths? Like a horse in the desert, they did not stumble.
Isaiah 63:14 Like livestock that go down into the valley, to make for yourself a glorious name.
Isaiah 63:15  your zeal and your might? The stirring of your inner parts and your compassion are held back from me.
Isaiah 63:16 Forour Redeemer from of old is your name.
Isaiah 63:17 O LORD, why do you make us wander from your ways andReturn for the sake of your servants, the tribes of your heritage.
Isaiah 63:18 our adversaries have trampled down your sanctuary.
Isaiah 63:19  We have become like those over whom you have never ruled, like those who are not called by your name.
Isaiah 64:1 that the mountains might quake at your presence —
Isaiah 64:2 to make your name known to your adversaries, and that the nations might tremble at your presence!
Isaiah 64:3  When you did awesome things that we did not look for, you came down, the mountains quaked at your presence.
Isaiah 64:4 no eye has seen a God besides you, who acts for those who wait for him.
Isaiah 64:5 You meet him who joyfully works righteousness, those who remember you in your ways. Behold, you were angry, and we sinned; in our sins we have been a long time, and shall we be saved?
Isaiah 64:6 We all fade like a leaf, and our iniquities, like the wind, take us away.
Isaiah 64:7   the hand of our iniquities.
Isaiah 64:8 we are all the work of your hand.
Isaiah 64:9 and remember not iniquity forever. Behold, please look, we are all your people.
Isaiah 64:10  Your holy cities have become a wilderness; Zion has become a wilderness, Jerusalem a desolation.
Isaiah 64:11   house, where our fathers praised you, has been burned by fire, and all our pleasant places have become ruins.
Isaiah 64:12  Will you restrain yourself at these things, O LORD? Will you keep silent, and afflict us so terribly?
Isaiah 65:1   my name.
Isaiah 65:2  I spread out my hands all the day to a rebellious people, who walk in a way that is not good, following their own devices;
Isaiah 65:3 a people who provoke me to my face continually, sacrificing in gardens and making offerings on bricks;
Isaiah 65:4 who sit in tombs, and spend the night in secret places; who eat pig's flesh, and broth of tainted meat is in their vessels;
Isaiah 65:5 who say, “Keep to yourself, do not come near me, for I am too holy for you.” These are a smoke in my nostrils, a fire that burns all the day.
Isaiah 65:6 Behold,I will indeed repay into their lap
Isaiah 65:7 both your iniquities
Isaiah 65:8 Thus says the LORD: and not destroy them all.
Isaiah 65:9  I will bring forth offspring from Jacob, and from Judah possessors of my mountains; my chosen shall possess it, and my servants shall dwell there.
Isaiah 65:10  who have sought me.
Isaiah 65:11 But fill cups of mixed wine for Destiny,
Isaiah 65:12 I will destine you to the sword, and all of you shall bow down to the slaughter, but you did what was evil in my eyes and chose what I did not delight in.”
Isaiah 65:13 Therefore thus says the Lord GOD: “Behold, my servants shall eat, but you shall be hungry; behold, my servants shall drink, but you shall be thirsty; behold, my servants shall rejoice, but you shall be put to shame;
Isaiah 65:14 behold, my servants shall sing for gladness of heart, but you shall cry out for pain of heart and shall wail for breaking of spirit.
Isaiah 65:15 You shall leave your name to he will call by another name,
Isaiah 65:16 so that he whobecause the former troubles are forgotten and are hidden from my eyes.
Isaiah 65:17 “For behold, I create new heavens and a new earth, and the former things shall not be remembered or come into mind.
Isaiah 65:18 But be glad and rejoice forever in that which I create; for behold, I create Jerusalem to be a joy, and her people to be a gladness.
Isaiah 65:19 no more shall be heard in it the sound of weeping and the cry of distress.
Isaiah 65:20 No more shall there be in it an infant who lives but a few days, or an old man who does not fill out his days, for the sinner a hundred years old shall be accursed.
Isaiah 65:21  They shall build houses and inhabit them; they shall plant vineyards and eat their fruit.
Isaiah 65:22   the work of their hands.
Isaiah 65:23  they shall be the offspring of the blessed of the LORD, and their descendants with them.
Isaiah 65:24 while they are yet speaking I will hear.
Isaiah 65:25 They shall not hurt or destroy in all my holy mountain,” says the LORD.
Isaiah 66:1 “Heaven is my throne, and the earth is my footstool; what is the house that you would build for me, and what is the place of my rest?
Isaiah 66:2 But this is the one to whom I will look: he who is humble and contrite in spirit and trembles at my word.
Isaiah 66:3 These have chosen their own ways, and their soul delights in their abominations;
Isaiah 66:4 but they did what was evil in my eyes and chose that in which I did not delight.”
Isaiah 66:5 Hear the word of the LORD, you who tremble at his word: “Your brothers who hate you and cast you out for my name's sake have said, ‘Let the LORD be glorified, that we may see your joy’; but it is they who shall be put to shame.
Isaiah 66:6 “The sound of an uproar from the city! A sound from the temple! The sound of the LORD, rendering recompense to his enemies!
Isaiah 66:7  “Before she was in labor she gave birth; before her pain came upon her she delivered a son.
Isaiah 66:8 Who has heard such a thing? Who has seen such things? Shall a land be born in one day? Shall a nation be brought forth in one moment? For as soon as Zion was in labor she brought forth her children.
Isaiah 66:9 Shall I bring to the point of birth and not cause to bring forth?” says the LORD; “shall I, who cause to bring forth, shut the womb?” says your God.
Isaiah 66:10  “Rejoice with Jerusalem, and be glad for her, all you who love her; rejoice with her in joy, all you who mourn over her;
Isaiah 66:11 that you may nurse and be satisfied from her consoling breast; that you may drink deeply with delight from her glorious abundance.”
Isaiah 66:12 For thus says the LORD:  you shall nurse, you shall be carried upon her hip, and bounced upon her knees.
Isaiah 66:13 As one whom his mother comforts, so I will comfort you; you shall be comforted in Jerusalem.
Isaiah 66:14 You shall see, and your heart shall rejoice;  the hand of the LORD shall be known to his servants, and he shall show his indignation against his enemies.
Isaiah 66:15 “For behold, his chariots like the whirlwind, to render his anger in fury, and his rebuke with flames of fire.
Isaiah 66:16 For will the LORD enter into judgment, and by his sword, with all flesh; and those slain by the LORD shall be many.
Isaiah 66:17  eating pig's flesh and the abomination and mice, shall come to an end together, declares the LORD.
Isaiah 66:18 “For I know to gather all nations and tongues. And they shall come and shall see my glory,
Isaiah 66:19 and I will set a sign among them. And from them that have not heard my fame or seen my glory. And they shall declare my glory among the nations.
Isaiah 66:20  as an offering to the LORD, on horses and in chariots and in litters and on mules and on dromedaries, to my holy mountain Jerusalem, says the LORD, just as the Israelites bring their grain offering in a clean vessel to the house of the LORD.
Isaiah 66:21  And some of them also I will take for priests and for Levites, says the LORD.
Isaiah 66:22 “For as shall your offspring and your name remain.
Isaiah 66:23  From new moon to new moon, and from Sabbath to Sabbath, all flesh shall come to worship before me, declares the LORD.
Isaiah 66:24 “And they shall go out and look on the dead bodies of the men who have rebelled against me. For their fire shall not be quenched, and they shall be an abhorrence to all flesh.”
Jeremiah 1:1 The words of Jeremiah, the son of Hilkiah, one Anathoth in the land of Benjamin,
Jeremiah 1:2 to whom the word of the LORD came in the days of the thirteenth year of his reign.
Jeremiah 1:3 It came also in the days of until the captivity of Jerusalem in the fifth month.
Jeremiah 1:4 Now the word of the LORD came to me, saying,
Jeremiah 1:5  to the nations.”
Jeremiah 1:6 Then I said, “Ah, Lord GOD! Behold, for I am only a youth.”
Jeremiah 1:7 But the LORD said to me, “Do not say, ‘I am only a youth’; for to all to whom I send you, you shall go, and whatever I command you, you shall speak.
Jeremiah 1:8 for I am with you to deliver you, declares the LORD.”
Jeremiah 1:9  my words in your mouth.
Jeremiah 1:10 See, I have set you this dayto pluck up and to break down, to destroy and to overthrow, to build and to plant.”
Jeremiah 1:11 And the word of the LORD came to me, saying,  branch.”
Jeremiah 1:12 Then the LORD said to me, “You have seen well, for I am watching over my word to perform it.”
Jeremiah 1:13 The word of the LORD came to me a second time, saying, “What do you see?” And I said, “I see from the north.”
Jeremiah 1:14 Then the LORD said to me,  shall be let loose upon all the inhabitants of the land.
Jeremiah 1:15 For behold, and they shall come, and every one shall set his throne at the entrance of the gates of Jerusalem, against all its walls all around and against all the cities of Judah.
Jeremiah 1:16 And worshiped the works of their own hands.
Jeremiah 1:17 But you, Do not be dismayed by them, lest I dismay you before them.
Jeremiah 1:18 And I, behold, I make you this day bronze walls, against the whole land, against the kings of Judah, its officials, its priests, and the people of the land.
Jeremiah 1:19  I am with you, declares the LORD, to deliver you.”
Jeremiah 2:1 The word of the LORD came to me, saying,
Jeremiah 2:2 “Go and proclaim in the hearing of Jerusalem, Thus says the LORD, “I remember the devotion ofin a land not sown.
Jeremiah 2:3 All who ate of it incurred guilt; disaster came upon them, declares the LORD.”
Jeremiah 2:4 Hear the word of the LORD, O house of Jacob, and all the clans of the house of Israel.
Jeremiah 2:5 Thus says the LORD:  worthlessness, and became worthless?
Jeremiah 2:6 They did not say, in the wilderness, in a land of deserts and pits, in a land of drought and deep darkness, in a land that none passes through, where no man dwells?’
Jeremiah 2:7  you defiled my land and made my heritage an abomination.
Jeremiah 2:8 The priests did not say, ‘Where is the LORD?’  things that do not profit.
Jeremiah 2:9 “Therefore with your children's children I will contend.
Jeremiah 2:10 For cross to the coasts of Kedar and examine with care; see if there has been such a thing.
Jeremiah 2:11  that which does not profit.
Jeremiah 2:12 Be appalled, O heavens, at this; be shocked, be utterly desolate, declares the LORD,
Jeremiah 2:13 for my people have committed two evils:  living waters, and hewed out cisterns for themselves, broken cisterns that can hold no water.
Jeremiah 2:14  “Is Israel a slave? Is he a homeborn servant? Why then has he become a prey?
Jeremiah 2:15  without inhabitant.
Jeremiah 2:16 Moreover, the men of  the crown of your head.
Jeremiah 2:17  he led you in the way?
Jeremiah 2:18
Jeremiah 2:19  you to forsake the LORD your God; the fear of me is not in you, declares the Lord GOD of hosts.
Jeremiah 2:20 “For long ago I like a whore.
Jeremiah 2:21 How then have you turned degenerate and become a wild vine?
Jeremiah 2:22 Though you wash yourself with lye and use much soap, the stain of your guilt is still before me, declares the Lord GOD.
Jeremiah 2:23  in the valley; know what you have done — a restless young camel running here and there,
Jeremiah 2:24  a wild donkey used to the wilderness, in her heat sniffing the wind! Who can restrain her lust? None who seek her need weary themselves; in her month they will find her.
Jeremiah 2:25 Keepfor I have loved foreigners, and after them I will go.’
Jeremiah 2:26 “As a thief is shamed when caught, so the house of Israel shall be shamed: they, their kings, their officials, their priests, and their prophets,
Jeremiah 2:27 who say to a tree, ‘You are my father,’ and to a stone, ‘You gave me birth.’ For they have turned their back to me, and not their face. But in the time of their trouble they say, ‘Arise and save us!’
Jeremiah 2:28 But as many as your cities are your gods, O Judah.
Jeremiah 2:29 “Why do you contend with me? You have all transgressed against me, declares the LORD.
Jeremiah 2:30 In vain have Iyour own sword devoured your prophets like a ravening lion.
Jeremiah 2:31 And you, O generation, behold the word of the LORD. Have I been a wilderness to Israel, or a land of thick darkness? Why then do my people say, ‘We are free, we will come no more to you’?
Jeremiah 2:32  my people have forgotten me days without number.
Jeremiah 2:33 “How well you direct your course to seek love! So that even to wicked women you have taught your ways.
Jeremiah 2:34 Also on your skirts is found  breaking in. Yet in spite of all these things
Jeremiah 2:35 you say, ‘I am innocent; surely his anger has turned from me.’  saying, ‘I have not sinned.’
Jeremiah 2:36  put to shame by Egypt as you were put to shame by Assyria.
Jeremiah 2:37 From it too you will come away with your hands on your head, for the LORD has rejected those in whom you trust, and you will not prosper by them.
Jeremiah 3:1 You have played the whore with many lovers; and would you return to me? declares the LORD.
Jeremiah 3:2 Lift up your eyes toYou have polluted the land with your vile whoredom.
Jeremiah 3:3  the forehead of a whore; you refuse to be ashamed.
Jeremiah 3:4 Have you not just now called to me, ‘My father, you are the friend of my youth —
Jeremiah 3:5  will he be angry forever, will he be indignant to the end?’ Behold, you have spoken, but you have done all the evil that you could.”
Jeremiah 3:6 The LORD said to me in the days of played the whore?
Jeremiah 3:7 And I thought, ‘After she has done all this she will return to me,’ but she did not return, and her treacherous sister Judah saw it.
Jeremiah 3:8 She saw that for all the adulteries of that faithless one, Israel, and played the whore.
Jeremiah 3:9 Because she took her whoredom lightly, she polluted the land, committing adultery with stone and tree.
Jeremiah 3:10 Yet for all this her treacherous sister Judah did not return to me with her whole heart, but in pretense, declares the LORD.”
Jeremiah 3:11 And the LORD said to me, “Faithless Israel has shown herself more righteous than treacherous Judah.
Jeremiah 3:12 Go, and proclaim these words towardI will not be angry forever.
Jeremiah 3:13  every green tree, and that you have not obeyed my voice, declares the LORD.
Jeremiah 3:14 for I am your master; I will take you, one from a city and two from a family, and I will bring you to Zion.
Jeremiah 3:15 “‘And who will feed you with knowledge and understanding.
Jeremiah 3:16 And when you have multiplied and been fruitful in the land, in those days, declares the LORD, they shall no more say, “The ark of the covenant of the LORD.” It shall not come to mind or be remembered or missed; it shall not be made again.
Jeremiah 3:17 At that time Jerusalem shall be called the throne of the LORD, to the presence of the LORD in Jerusalem, and they shall no more stubbornly follow their own evil heart.
Jeremiah 3:18  the land that I gave your fathers for a heritage.
Jeremiah 3:19 “‘I said, How I would set you among my sons, and give you a pleasant land, a heritage most beautiful of all nations. And I thought you would call me, My Father, and would not turn from following me.
Jeremiah 3:20  Surely, as a treacherous wife leaves her husband, so have you been treacherous to me, O house of Israel, declares the LORD.’”
Jeremiah 3:21 A voice on thethe weeping and pleading of Israel's sons because they have perverted their way; they have forgotten the LORD their God.
Jeremiah 3:22 I will heal your faithlessness.” “Behold, we come to you, for you are the LORD our God.
Jeremiah 3:23 TrulyTruly in the LORD our God is the salvation of Israel.
Jeremiah 3:24 “But from our youth the shameful thing has devoured all for which our fathers labored, their flocks and their herds, their sons and their daughters.
Jeremiah 3:25  we have sinned against the LORD our God, we and our fathers, from our youth even to this day, and we have not obeyed the voice of the LORD our God.”
Jeremiah 4:1 “If you return, O Israel, declares the LORD, and do not waver,
Jeremiah 4:2 and in him shall they glory.”
Jeremiah 4:3 For thus says the LORD to the men of Judah and Jerusalem:  sow not among thorns.
Jeremiah 4:4 because of the evil of your deeds.”
Jeremiah 4:5 Declare in Judah, and proclaim in Jerusalem, and say, ‘Assemble, and let us go into the fortified cities!’
Jeremiah 4:6 and great destruction.
Jeremiah 4:7 without inhabitant.
Jeremiah 4:8 For this the fierce anger of the LORD has not turned back from us.”
Jeremiah 4:9 “In that day, declares the LORD, courage shall fail both king and officials. The priests shall be appalled and the prophets astounded.”
Jeremiah 4:10 Then I said, “Ah, Lord GOD, surely you have utterly deceived this people and Jerusalem, saying, ‘It shall be well with you,’ whereas the sword has reached their very life.”
Jeremiah 4:11 At that time it will be said to this people and to Jerusalem, “A hot wind from the bare heights in the desert toward the daughter of my people, not to winnow or cleanse,
Jeremiah 4:12 a wind too full for this comes for me. Now it is I who speak in judgment upon them.”
Jeremiah 4:13 Behold, he comes up like clouds;  for we are ruined!
Jeremiah 4:14 O Jerusalem, wash your heart from evil, that you may be saved. How long shall your wicked thoughts lodge within you?
Jeremiah 4:15 For a voice Mount Ephraim.
Jeremiah 4:16 Warn the nations that he is coming; announce to Jerusalem, “Besiegers come from a distant land; they shout against the cities of Judah.
Jeremiah 4:17 Like keepers of a field are they against her all around, because she has rebelled against me, declares the LORD.
Jeremiah 4:18 Your ways and your deeds have brought this upon you. This is your doom, and it is bitter; it has reached your very heart.”
Jeremiah 4:19  My anguish, my anguish! I writhe in pain! Oh the walls of my heart! My heart is beating wildly; I cannot keep silent, for I hear the sound of the trumpet, the alarm of war.
Jeremiah 4:20 Suddenly my tents are laid waste, my curtains in a moment.
Jeremiah 4:21 How long must I see the standard and hear the sound of the trumpet?
Jeremiah 4:22 “ForThey are ‘wise’ — in doing evil! But how to do good they know not.”
Jeremiah 4:23 I looked on the earth, and behold, it wasand to the heavens, and they had no light.
Jeremiah 4:24 I looked on the mountains, and behold, they were quaking, and all the hills moved to and fro.
Jeremiah 4:25  I looked, and behold, there was no man, and all the birds of the air had fled.
Jeremiah 4:26 I looked, and behold, the his fierce anger.
Jeremiah 4:27 For thus says the LORD, “The whole land shall be a desolation; yet I will not make a full end.
Jeremiah 4:28 I have not relented, nor will I turn back.”
Jeremiah 4:29 At the noise of horseman and archer every city takes to flight; they enter thickets; they climb among rocks; all the cities are forsaken, and no man dwells in them.
Jeremiah 4:30 And you, O desolate one, what do you mean that you dress in scarlet, Your lovers despise you; they seek your life.
Jeremiah 4:31 For I heardstretching out her hands, “Woe is me! I am fainting before murderers.”
Jeremiah 5:1 that I may pardon her.
Jeremiah 5:2 yet they swear falsely.
Jeremiah 5:3 O LORD, do not your eyes look for truth? They have made their faces harder than rock; they have refused to repent.
Jeremiah 5:4 Then I said, “These are only the poor; they have no sense; for they do not know the way of the LORD, the justice of their God.
Jeremiah 5:5 I will go to the great and will speak to them, for they know the way of the LORD, the justice of their God.” But they all alike had broken the yoke; they had burst the bonds.
Jeremiah 5:6 Therefore apostasies are great.
Jeremiah 5:7 and trooped to the houses of whores.
Jeremiah 5:8 They were well-fed, lusty stallions,  for his neighbor's wife.
Jeremiah 5:9  Shall I not punish them for these things? declares the LORD; and shall I not avenge myself on a nation such as this?
Jeremiah 5:10 but make not a full end; strip away her branches, for they are not the LORD's.
Jeremiah 5:11  For the house of Israel and the house of Judah have been utterly treacherous to me, declares the LORD.
Jeremiah 5:12 They have spoken falsely of the LORD and have said, ‘He will do nothing; nor shall we see sword or famine.
Jeremiah 5:13 The prophets will become wind; the word is not in them. Thus shall it be done to them!’”
Jeremiah 5:14 Therefore thus says the LORD, the God of hosts: “Because you have spoken this word, behold, a fire, and this people wood, and the fire shall consume them.
Jeremiah 5:15 nor can you understand what they say.
Jeremiah 5:16  an open tomb; they are all mighty warriors.
Jeremiah 5:17  fortified cities in which you trust they shall beat down with the sword.”
Jeremiah 5:18 “But even in those days, declares the LORD, I will not make a full end of you.
Jeremiah 5:19 And when your people say, so you shall serve foreigners in a land that is not yours.’”
Jeremiah 5:20 Declare this in the house of Jacob; proclaim it in Judah:
Jeremiah 5:21 “Hear this,who have eyes, but see not, who have ears, but hear not.
Jeremiah 5:22  they roar, they cannot pass over it.
Jeremiah 5:23  But this people has a stubborn and rebellious heart; they have turned aside and gone away.
Jeremiah 5:24 They do not say in their hearts, ‘Let us fear the LORD our God, the weeks appointed for the harvest.’
Jeremiah 5:25  Your iniquities have turned these away, and your sins have kept good from you.
Jeremiah 5:26 For wicked men are found among my people; They set a trap; they catch men.
Jeremiah 5:27 Like a cage full of birds, their houses are full of deceit; therefore they have become great and rich;
Jeremiah 5:28 they judge not with justice the cause of the fatherless, to make it prosper, and they do not defend the rights of the needy.
Jeremiah 5:29  Shall I not punish them for these things? declares the LORD, and shall I not avenge myself on a nation such as this?”
Jeremiah 5:30 An appalling and horrible thing has happened in the land:
Jeremiah 5:31 my people love to have it so, but what will you do when the end comes?
Jeremiah 6:1 Flee for safety, out of the north, and great destruction.
Jeremiah 6:2 The lovely and delicately bred I will destroy,
Jeremiah 6:3 they shall pitch their tents around her; they shall pasture, each in his place.
Jeremiah 6:4  at noon! Woe to us, for the day declines, for the shadows of evening lengthen!
Jeremiah 6:5 Arise, and let us attack by night and destroy her palaces!”
Jeremiah 6:6 For thus says the LORD of hosts:  punished; there is nothing but oppression within her.
Jeremiah 6:7 violence and destruction are heard within her; sickness and wounds are ever before me.
Jeremiah 6:8 Be warned, O Jerusalem,  a desolation, an uninhabited land.”
Jeremiah 6:9 Thus says the LORD of hosts: “They shall glean thoroughly as a vine the remnant of Israel; like a grape gatherer pass your hand again over its branches.”
Jeremiah 6:10  the word of the LORD is to them an object of scorn; they take no pleasure in it.
Jeremiah 6:11 Therefore I am full of the wrath of the LORD;  shall be taken, the elderly and the very aged.
Jeremiah 6:12  Their houses shall be turned over to others, their fields and wives together, for I will stretch out my hand against the inhabitants of the land,” declares the LORD.
Jeremiah 6:13  prophet to priest, everyone deals falsely.
Jeremiah 6:14 They have healed the wound of my people lightly, saying,when there is no peace.
Jeremiah 6:15 at the time that I punish them, they shall be overthrown,” says the LORD.
Jeremiah 6:16 Thus says the LORD: “Stand by the roads, and look, and ask forand find rest for your souls. But they said, ‘We will not walk in it.’
Jeremiah 6:17  ‘We will not pay attention.’
Jeremiah 6:18 Therefore hear, O nations, and know, O congregation, what will happen to them.
Jeremiah 6:19 Hear, O earth; behold, I am bringing disaster upon this people, the fruit of their devices, because they have not paid attention to my words; and as for my law, they have rejected it.
Jeremiah 6:20 Your burnt offerings are not acceptable, nor your sacrifices pleasing to me.
Jeremiah 6:21 Therefore thus says the LORD: ‘Behold, I will lay before this people stumbling blocks against which they shall stumble; fathers and sons together, neighbor and friend shall perish.’”
Jeremiah 6:22 Thus says the LORD:  the farthest parts of the earth.
Jeremiah 6:23 They lay hold on bow and javelin; they arethe sound of them is like the roaring sea; they ride on horses, set in array as a man for battle, against you, O daughter of Zion!”
Jeremiah 6:24 We have heard the report of it; pain as of a woman in labor.
Jeremiah 6:25 Go not out into the field, nor walk on the road, for the enemy has a sword; terror is on every side.
Jeremiah 6:26 O daughter of my people,make mourning as for an only son, most bitter lamentation, for suddenly the destroyer will come upon us.
Jeremiah 6:27 “I have made you test their ways.
Jeremiah 6:28  bronze and iron; all of them act corruptly.
Jeremiah 6:29 Thein vain the refining goes on, for the wicked are not removed.
Jeremiah 6:30  Rejected silver they are called, for the LORD has rejected them.”
Jeremiah 7:1 The word that came to Jeremiah from the LORD:
Jeremiah 7:2  “Stand in the gate of the LORD's house, and proclaim there this word, and say, Hear the word of the LORD, all you men of Judah who enter these gates to worship the LORD.
Jeremiah 7:3 Thus says the LORD of hosts, the God of Israel: Amend your ways and your deeds, and I will let you dwell in this place.
Jeremiah 7:4  Do not trust in these deceptive words: ‘This is the temple of the LORD, the temple of the LORD, the temple of the LORD.’
Jeremiah 7:5 “For if you truly execute justice one with another,
Jeremiah 7:6 if you and if you do not go after other gods to your own harm,
Jeremiah 7:7  in the land that I gave of old to your fathers forever.
Jeremiah 7:8 “Behold, you trust in deceptive words to no avail.
Jeremiah 7:9  and go after other gods that you have not known,
Jeremiah 7:10 and then come and stand before me in this house, which is called by my name, and say, ‘We are delivered!’ — only to go on doing all these abominations?
Jeremiah 7:11  become a den of robbers in your eyes? Behold, I myself have seen it, declares the LORD.
Jeremiah 7:12 Go now to see what I did to it because of the evil of my people Israel.
Jeremiah 7:13 And now, because you have done all these things, declares the LORD, and when I called you, you did not answer,
Jeremiah 7:14 therefore I will do to as I did to Shiloh.
Jeremiah 7:15  Ephraim.
Jeremiah 7:16 “As for you, do not pray for this people, or lift up a cry or prayer for them, and do not intercede with me, for I will not hear you.
Jeremiah 7:17 Do you not see what they are doing in the cities of Judah and in the streets of Jerusalem?
Jeremiah 7:18 The children gather wood, the fathers kindle fire, to provoke me to anger.
Jeremiah 7:19  to their own shame?
Jeremiah 7:20 Therefore thus says the Lord GOD: Behold, it will burn and not be quenched.”
Jeremiah 7:21 Thus says the LORD of hosts, the God of Israel: “Add your burnt offerings to your sacrifices, and eat the flesh.
Jeremiah 7:22 For in the day that I brought them out of the land of Egypt, I did not speak to your fathers or command them concerning burnt offerings and sacrifices.
Jeremiah 7:23 But this command I gave them: that it may be well with you.’
Jeremiah 7:24  went backward and not forward.
Jeremiah 7:25 From the day that your fathers came out of the land of Egypt to this day, I have persistently sent all my servants the prophets to them, day after day.
Jeremiah 7:26  They did worse than their fathers.
Jeremiah 7:27  You shall call to them, but they will not answer you.
Jeremiah 7:28 And you shall say to them, ‘This is the nation that did not obey the voice of the LORD their God, and did not accept discipline; truth has perished; it is cut off from their lips.
Jeremiah 7:29  the bare heights, for the LORD has rejected and forsaken the generation of his wrath.’
Jeremiah 7:30 “For the sons of Judah have done evil in my sight, declares the LORD. They have set defile it.
Jeremiah 7:31 And they have built the high places of which I did not command, nor did it come into my mind.
Jeremiah 7:32  for they will bury in Topheth, because there is no room elsewhere.
Jeremiah 7:33  and none will frighten them away.
Jeremiah 7:34  for the land shall become a waste.
Jeremiah 8:1 “At that time, declares the LORD, the bones of the kings of Judah, the bones of its officials, the bones of the priests, the bones of the prophets, and the bones of the inhabitants of Jerusalem shall be brought out of their tombs.
Jeremiah 8:2 And they shall be spread They shall be as dung on the surface of the ground.
Jeremiah 8:3  in all the places where I have driven them, declares the LORD of hosts.
Jeremiah 8:4 “You shall say to them, Thus says the LORD: When men fall, do they not rise again? If one turns away, does he not return?
Jeremiah 8:5 Why then has this peopleThey hold fast to deceit; they refuse to return.
Jeremiah 8:6 like a horse plunging headlong into battle.
Jeremiah 8:7 Even the stork in the heavens knows her times, and  of the LORD.
Jeremiah 8:8  “How can you say, ‘We are wise, and the law of the LORD is with us’? But behold, the lying pen of the scribes has made it into a lie.
Jeremiah 8:9  and taken; behold, they have rejected the word of the LORD, so what wisdom is in them?
Jeremiah 8:10  is greedy for unjust gain; from prophet to priest, everyone deals falsely.
Jeremiah 8:11 They have healed the wound of my people lightly, saying, ‘Peace, peace,’ when there is no peace.
Jeremiah 8:12 Were they ashamed when they committed abomination? No,Therefore they shall fall among the fallen; when I punish them, they shall be overthrown, says the LORD.
Jeremiah 8:13 When I would gather them, declares the LORD, there are
Jeremiah 8:14 Why do we sit still?  poisoned water to drink, because we have sinned against the LORD.
Jeremiah 8:15  We looked for peace, but no good came; for a time of healing, but behold, terror.
Jeremiah 8:16  and devour the land and all that fills it, the city and those who dwell in it.
Jeremiah 8:17 For behold, I am sending among youand they shall bite you,” declares the LORD.
Jeremiah 8:18 My joy is gone; grief is upon me;my heart is sick within me.
Jeremiah 8:19 Behold, the cry of the daughter of my people from“Why have they provoked me to anger with their carved images and with their foreign idols?”
Jeremiah 8:20 “The harvest is past, the summer is ended, and we are not saved.”
Jeremiah 8:21 For the wound ofI mourn, and dismay has taken hold on me.
Jeremiah 8:22 Is there no balm in Gilead? Is there no physician there? Why then has the health of the daughter of my people not been restored?
Jeremiah 9:1  the daughter of my people!
Jeremiah 9:2  treacherous men.
Jeremiah 9:3 and they do not know me, declares the LORD.
Jeremiah 9:4  goes about as a slanderer.
Jeremiah 9:5 Everyone deceives his neighbor, and no one speaks the truth; they have taught their tongue to speak lies; they weary themselves committing iniquity.
Jeremiah 9:6 Heaping oppression upon oppression, and deceit upon deceit, they refuse to know me, declares the LORD.
Jeremiah 9:7 Therefore thus says the LORD of hosts: “Behold, because of my people?
Jeremiah 9:8  he plans an ambush for him.
Jeremiah 9:9  Shall I not punish them for these things? declares the LORD, and shall I not avenge myself on a nation such as this?
Jeremiah 9:10 “I will take up weeping and wailing for the mountains, and a lamentation forboth the birds of the air and the beasts have fled and are gone.
Jeremiah 9:11 and I will make the cities of Judah a desolation, without inhabitant.”
Jeremiah 9:12  and laid waste like a wilderness, so that no one passes through?
Jeremiah 9:13 And the LORD says: “Because they have forsaken my law that I set before them, and have not obeyed my voice or walked in accord with it,
Jeremiah 9:14 but have stubbornly followed their own hearts and have gone after the Baals, as their fathers taught them.
Jeremiah 9:15 Therefore thus says the LORD of hosts, the God of Israel: poisonous water to drink.
Jeremiah 9:16  send the sword after them, until I have consumed them.”
Jeremiah 9:17 Thus says the LORD of hosts: “Consider, and call for the mourning women to come; send for the skillful women to come;
Jeremiah 9:18 let them make hastethat our eyes may run down with tears and our eyelids flow with water.
Jeremiah 9:19 For a sound of wailing is heard from Zion: ‘How we are ruined! We are utterly shamed, because we have left the land, because they have cast down our dwellings.’”
Jeremiah 9:20 Hear, O women, the word of the LORD, and let your ear receive the word of his mouth; teach to your daughters a lament, and each to her neighbor a dirge.
Jeremiah 9:21 For death has come up into our windows; it has entered our palaces, cutting off the children from the streets and the young men from the squares.
Jeremiah 9:22 Speak: “Thus declares the LORD, like sheaves after the reaper, and none shall gather them.’”
Jeremiah 9:23 Thus says the LORD: “Let not the wise man boast in his wisdom, let not the mighty man boast in his might, let not the rich man boast in his riches,
Jeremiah 9:24 but For in these things I delight, declares the LORD.”
Jeremiah 9:25 “Behold, the days are coming, declares the LORD, when I will punish all those who are circumcised merely in the flesh —
Jeremiah 9:26  uncircumcised in heart.”
Jeremiah 10:1 Hear the word that the LORD speaks to you, O house of Israel.
Jeremiah 10:2 Thus says the LORD: “Learn not the way of the nations, nor be dismayed at the signs of the heavens because the nations are dismayed at them,
Jeremiah 10:3 A tree from the forest is cut down and worked with an axe by the hands of a craftsman.
Jeremiah 10:4 they fasten it with hammer and nails so that it cannot move.
Jeremiah 10:5 Their idolsfor they cannot do evil, neither is it in them to do good.”
Jeremiah 10:6  There is none like you, O LORD; you are great, and your name is great in might.
Jeremiah 10:7  Who would not fear you, O King of the nations? For this is your due; for among all the wise ones of the nations and in all their kingdoms there is none like you.
Jeremiah 10:8  stupid and foolish; the instruction of idols is but wood!
Jeremiah 10:9 they are all the work of skilled men.
Jeremiah 10:10 he is the living God and the everlasting King. At his wrath the earth quakes, and the nations cannot endure his indignation.
Jeremiah 10:11 Thus shall you say to them:
Jeremiah 10:12  by his understanding stretched out the heavens.
Jeremiah 10:13  from his storehouses.
Jeremiah 10:14 and there is no breath in them.
Jeremiah 10:15 They are worthless, a work of delusion; at the time of their punishment they shall perish.
Jeremiah 10:16 Not like these is he who isthe LORD of hosts is his name.
Jeremiah 10:17  Gather up your bundle from the ground, O you who dwell under siege!
Jeremiah 10:18 For thus says the LORD: and I will bring distress on them, that they may feel it.”
Jeremiah 10:19 Woe is me because of my hurt! My wound is grievous. But I said, “Truly this is an affliction, and I must bear it.”
Jeremiah 10:20  to set up my curtains.
Jeremiah 10:21 and all their flock is scattered.
Jeremiah 10:22 A voice, a rumor! Behold, it comes! — a lair of jackals.
Jeremiah 10:23  I know, O LORD, that the way of man is not in himself, that it is not in man who walks to direct his steps.
Jeremiah 10:24  Correct me, O LORD, but in justice; not in your anger, lest you bring me to nothing.
Jeremiah 10:25 for they have devoured Jacob; they have devoured him and consumed him, and have laid waste his habitation.
Jeremiah 11:1 The word that came to Jeremiah from the LORD:
Jeremiah 11:2  “Hear the words of this covenant, and speak to the men of Judah and the inhabitants of Jerusalem.
Jeremiah 11:3 You shall say to them, Thus says the LORD, the God of Israel: Cursed be the man who does not hear the words of this covenant
Jeremiah 11:4 that I commanded your fathers when I brought them out of the land of Egypt, So shall you be my people, and I will be your God,
Jeremiah 11:5  to give them a land flowing with milk and honey, as at this day.” Then I answered, “So be it, LORD.”
Jeremiah 11:6 And the LORD said to me, Hear the words of this covenant and do them.
Jeremiah 11:7 For I solemnly warned your fathers when I brought them up out of the land of Egypt, Obey my voice.
Jeremiah 11:8  the words of this covenant, which I commanded them to do, but they did not.”
Jeremiah 11:9 Again the LORD said to me, “A conspiracy exists among the men of Judah and the inhabitants of Jerusalem.
Jeremiah 11:10 They have turned back to The house of Israel and the house of Judah have broken my covenant that I made with their fathers.
Jeremiah 11:11 Therefore, thus says the LORD, Behold, I am bringing disaster upon them that they cannot escape. Though they cry to me, I will not listen to them.
Jeremiah 11:12 Then the cities of Judah and the inhabitants of Jerusalem but they cannot save them in the time of their trouble.
Jeremiah 11:13  altars to make offerings to Baal.
Jeremiah 11:14 “Therefore for I will not listen when they call to me in the time of their trouble.
Jeremiah 11:15  Can you then exult?
Jeremiah 11:16 The LORD once called you its branches will be consumed.
Jeremiah 11:17 The LORD of hosts, provoking me to anger by making offerings to Baal.”
Jeremiah 11:18 The LORD made it known to me and I knew; then you showed me their deeds.
Jeremiah 11:19 But I was the land of the living, that his name be remembered no more.”
Jeremiah 11:20 But, O LORD of hosts, who judges righteously, wholet me see your vengeance upon them, for to you have I committed my cause.
Jeremiah 11:21 Therefore thus says the LORD concerning the men of “Do not prophesy in the name of the LORD, or you will die by our hand” —
Jeremiah 11:22 therefore thus says the LORD of hosts: “Behold, I will punish them. The young men shall die by the sword, their sons and their daughters shall die by famine,
Jeremiah 11:23 and none of them shall be left. For I will bring disaster upon the men of the year of their punishment.”
Jeremiah 12:1  who are treacherous thrive?
Jeremiah 12:2 You plant them, and they take root; they grow and produce fruit; you are near in their mouth and far from their heart.
Jeremiah 12:3  the day of slaughter.
Jeremiah 12:4 the beasts and the birds are swept away, because they said, “He will not see our latter end.”
Jeremiah 12:5 “If you have raced with men on foot, and they have wearied you, how will you compete with horses? And if in a safe land you are so trusting, what will you do in the thicket of the Jordan?
Jeremiah 12:6 Fordo not believe them, though they speak friendly words to you.”
Jeremiah 12:7 “I have forsaken my house; I have abandoned the beloved of my soul into the hands of her enemies.
Jeremiah 12:8  My heritage has become to me like a lion in the forest; she has lifted up her voice against me; therefore I hate her.
Jeremiah 12:9 Is assemble all the wild beasts; bring them to devour.
Jeremiah 12:10 Many shepherds have destroyed my vineyard; they have trampled down my portion; they have made my pleasant portion a desolate wilderness.
Jeremiah 12:11 They have made it a desolation; desolate,but no man lays it to heart.
Jeremiah 12:12 Upon all the bare heights in the desert destroyers have come, for the sword of the LORD devours from one end of the land to the other; no flesh has peace.
Jeremiah 12:13 because of the fierce anger of the LORD.”
Jeremiah 12:14 Thus says the LORD concerning all I have given my people Israel to inherit: “Behold, I will pluck them up from their land, and I will pluck up the house of Judah from among them.
Jeremiah 12:15 And after I have plucked them up, I will again have compassion on them, and I will bring them again each to his heritage and each to his land.
Jeremiah 12:16 And it shall come to pass, if they will diligently learn the ways of my people, then they shall be built up in the midst of my people.
Jeremiah 12:17  But if any nation will not listen, then I will utterly pluck it up and destroy it, declares the LORD.”
Jeremiah 13:1 Thus says the LORD to me, “Go and buy a linen loincloth and put it around your waist, and do not dip it in water.”
Jeremiah 13:2 So I bought a loincloth according to the word of the LORD, and put it around my waist.
Jeremiah 13:3 And the word of the LORD came to me a second time,
Jeremiah 13:4 “Take the loincloth that you have bought, which is around your waist, and arise, a cleft of the rock.”
Jeremiah 13:5 So I went and hid it by the Euphrates, as the LORD commanded me.
Jeremiah 13:6 And after many days the LORD said to me, “Arise, go to the Euphrates, and take from there the loincloth that I commanded you to hide there.”
Jeremiah 13:7 Then I went to the Euphrates, and dug, and I took good for nothing.
Jeremiah 13:8 Then the word of the LORD came to me:
Jeremiah 13:9 “Thus says the LORD: pride of Jerusalem.
Jeremiah 13:10 This evil people, who refuse to hear my words, good for nothing.
Jeremiah 13:11 For as the loincloth clings to the waist of a man, so I made the whole house of Israel and the whole house of Judah cling to me, declares the LORD, a name, a praise, and a glory, but they would not listen.
Jeremiah 13:12 “You shall speak to them this word: ‘Thus says the LORD, the God of Israel, “Every jar shall be filled with wine.”’ And they will say to you, ‘Do we not indeed know that every jar will be filled with wine?’
Jeremiah 13:13 Then you shall say to them, ‘Thus says the LORD: the priests, the prophets, and all the inhabitants of Jerusalem.
Jeremiah 13:14 And I will dash them one against another, fathers and sons together, declares the LORD. I will not pity or spare or have compassion, that I should not destroy them.’”
Jeremiah 13:15 Hear and give ear; be not proud, for the LORD has spoken.
Jeremiah 13:16  deep darkness.
Jeremiah 13:17 But if you will not listen, my soul will weep in secret for your pride; my eyes will weep bitterly and run down with tears, because the LORD's flock has been taken captive.
Jeremiah 13:18 Say to your beautiful crown has come down from your head.”
Jeremiah 13:19  The cities of the Negeb are shut up, with none to open them; all Judah is taken into exile, wholly taken into exile.
Jeremiah 13:20 “Lift up your eyes and see those who come from the north. Where is the flock that was given you, your beautiful flock?
Jeremiah 13:21 What will you say when they set as head over you those whom you yourself have taught to be friends to you? Will not pangs take hold of you like those of a woman in labor?
Jeremiah 13:22 And if you say in your heart,  your skirts are lifted up and you suffer violence.
Jeremiah 13:23  the leopard his spots? Then also you can do good who are accustomed to do evil.
Jeremiah 13:24 I will scatter you like chaff driven by the wind from the desert.
Jeremiah 13:25  you have forgotten me and trusted in lies.
Jeremiah 13:26  I myself will lift up your skirts over your face, and your shame will be seen.
Jeremiah 13:27 I have seen before you are made clean?”
Jeremiah 14:1 The word of the LORD that came to Jeremiah concerning the drought:
Jeremiah 14:2  the cry of Jerusalem goes up.
Jeremiah 14:3 Her nobles send their servants for water; they come to the cisterns; they find no water; they return with their vessels empty; they are cover their heads.
Jeremiah 14:4 Because of the ground that is dismayed, since there is no rain on the land, the farmers are ashamed; they cover their heads.
Jeremiah 14:5 Even the doe in the field forsakes her newborn fawn because there is no grass.
Jeremiah 14:6  The wild donkeys stand on the bare heights; they pant for air like jackals; their eyes fail because there is no vegetation.
Jeremiah 14:7 “Though our iniquities testify against us, act, O LORD,we have sinned against you.
Jeremiah 14:8  O you hope of Israel, its savior in time of trouble, why should you be like a stranger in the land, like a traveler who turns aside to tarry for a night?
Jeremiah 14:9 Why should you be like a man confused, do not leave us.”
Jeremiah 14:10 Thus says the LORD concerning this people: “They have loved to wander thus; they have not restrained their feet; now he will remember their iniquity and punish their sins.”
Jeremiah 14:11 The LORD said to me: “Do not pray for the welfare of this people.
Jeremiah 14:12 Though they fast, I will not hear their cry, by the sword, by famine, and by pestilence.”
Jeremiah 14:13 Then I said: “Ah, Lord GOD, behold, the prophets say to them, ‘You shall not see the sword, nor shall you have famine, but I will give you assured peace in this place.’”
Jeremiah 14:14 And the LORD said to me: “The the deceit of their own minds.
Jeremiah 14:15 Therefore thus says the LORD concerning the prophets who prophesy in my name although By sword and famine those prophets shall be consumed.
Jeremiah 14:16 And the people to whom they prophesy shall be cast out in the streets of Jerusalem, victims of famine and sword, with none to bury them — them, their wives, their sons, and their daughters. For I will pour out their evil upon them.
Jeremiah 14:17 “You shall say to them this word: with a very grievous blow.
Jeremiah 14:18 For both prophet and priest ply their trade through the land and have no knowledge.’”
Jeremiah 14:19 for a time of healing, but behold, terror.
Jeremiah 14:20 for we have sinned against you.
Jeremiah 14:21 Do not spurn us,remember and do not break your covenant with us.
Jeremiah 14:22 Are there any amongfor you do all these things.
Jeremiah 15:1 Then the LORD said to me, stood before me, yet my heart would not turn toward this people. Send them out of my sight, and let them go!
Jeremiah 15:2 And when they ask you, ‘Where shall we go?’ you shall say to them, ‘Thus says the LORD: “‘Those who are for pestilence, to pestilence, and those who are for the sword, to the sword; those who are for famine, to famine, and those who are for captivity, to captivity.’
Jeremiah 15:3  and the beasts of the earth to devour and destroy.
Jeremiah 15:4  Manasseh the son of Hezekiah, king of Judah, did in Jerusalem.
Jeremiah 15:5 or who will grieve for you? Who will turn aside to ask about your welfare?
Jeremiah 15:6 I am weary of relenting.
Jeremiah 15:7 they did not turn from their ways.
Jeremiah 15:8 I have made their widows more in number than the sand of the seas; I have brought against the mothers of young men a destroyer at noonday; I have made anguish and terror fall upon them suddenly.
Jeremiah 15:9 her sun went down while it was yet day; she has been shamed and disgraced. And the rest of them I will give to the sword before their enemies, declares the LORD.”
Jeremiah 15:10  I have not lent, nor have I borrowed, yet all of them curse me.
Jeremiah 15:11 The LORD said, “Have I not  set you free for their good? Have I not pleaded for you before the enemy in the time of trouble and in the time of distress?
Jeremiah 15:12 Can one break iron, iron from the north, and bronze?
Jeremiah 15:13  spoil, without price, for all your sins, throughout all your territory.
Jeremiah 15:14 I will make you serve your enemies for in my anger a fire is kindled that shall burn forever.”
Jeremiah 15:15  for your sake I bear reproach.
Jeremiah 15:16 Your words were found,for I am called by your name, O LORD, God of hosts.
Jeremiah 15:17 I sat alone, because your hand was upon me, for you had filled me with indignation.
Jeremiah 15:18 Why is my pain unceasing,  like a deceitful brook, like waters that fail?
Jeremiah 15:19 Therefore thus says the LORD:  stand before me. If you utter what is precious, and not what is worthless, you shall be as my mouth. They shall turn to you, but you shall not turn to them.
Jeremiah 15:20 for I am with you to save you and deliver you, declares the LORD.
Jeremiah 15:21  the ruthless.”
Jeremiah 16:1 The word of the LORD came to me:
Jeremiah 16:2 “You shall not take a wife, nor shall you have sons or daughters in this place.
Jeremiah 16:3 For thus says the LORD concerning the sons and daughters who are born in this place, and concerning the mothers who bore them and the fathers who fathered them in this land:
Jeremiah 16:4  and their dead bodies shall be food for the birds of the air and for the beasts of the earth.
Jeremiah 16:5 “For thus says the LORD: Do not enter the house of mourning, or go to lament or grieve for them, for I have taken away my peace from this people, my steadfast love and mercy, declares the LORD.
Jeremiah 16:6 Both great and small shall die in this land. or make himself bald for them.
Jeremiah 16:7 No one shall break bread for the mourner, to comfort him for the dead, nor shall anyone give him the cup of consolation to drink for his father or his mother.
Jeremiah 16:8 You shall not go into the house of feasting to sit with them, to eat and drink.
Jeremiah 16:9 For thus says the LORD of hosts, the God of Israel: Behold, I will silence in this place, before your eyes and in your days, the voice of mirth and the voice of gladness, the voice of the bridegroom and the voice of the bride.
Jeremiah 16:10 “And when you tell this people all these words, and they say to you, ‘Why has the LORD pronounced all this great evil against us? What is our iniquity? What is the sin that we have committed against the LORD our God?’
Jeremiah 16:11 then you shall say to them: have gone after other gods and have served and worshiped them, and have forsaken me and have not kept my law,
Jeremiah 16:12 and because every one of you follows his stubborn, evil will, refusing to listen to me.
Jeremiah 16:13 Therefore and there you shall serve other gods day and night, for I will show you no favor.’
Jeremiah 16:14  ‘As the LORD lives who brought up the people of Israel out of the land of Egypt,’
Jeremiah 16:15 but I will bring them back to their own land that I gave to their fathers.
Jeremiah 16:16 “Behold, of the clefts of the rocks.
Jeremiah 16:17 For nor is their iniquity concealed from my eyes.
Jeremiah 16:18 But first have filled my inheritance with their abominations.”
Jeremiah 16:19 worthless things in which there is no profit.
Jeremiah 16:20 Can man make for himself gods? Such are not gods!”
Jeremiah 16:21 “Therefore, behold, I will make them know, this once I will make them know my power and my might, and they shall know that my name is the LORD.”
Jeremiah 17:1 “The sin of Judah is written with the horns of their altars,
Jeremiah 17:2 while beside every green tree and on the high hills,
Jeremiah 17:3  Your wealth and all your treasures I will give for spoil as the price of your high places for sin throughout all your territory.
Jeremiah 17:4 You shall loosen your hand from your heritage that I gave to you, for in my anger a fire is kindled that shall burn forever.”
Jeremiah 17:5 Thus says the LORD: “Cursed is the man  whose heart turns away from the LORD.
Jeremiah 17:6  an uninhabited salt land.
Jeremiah 17:7 whose trust is the LORD.
Jeremiah 17:8  He is like a tree planted by water, that sends out its roots by the stream, and does not fear when heat comes, for its leaves remain green, and is not anxious in the year of drought, for it does not cease to bear fruit.”
Jeremiah 17:9 The heart is deceitful above all things, and desperately sick; who can understand it?
Jeremiah 17:10 to give every man according to his ways, according to the fruit of his deeds.”
Jeremiah 17:11 Like theand at his end he will be a fool.
Jeremiah 17:12 A glorious throne set on high from the beginning is the place of our sanctuary.
Jeremiah 17:13 O LORD, the LORD, the fountain of living water.
Jeremiah 17:14  you are my praise.
Jeremiah 17:15  Behold, they say to me, “Where is the word of the LORD? Let it come!”
Jeremiah 17:16 I have not run away from being your shepherd, nor have I desired the day of sickness.  what came out of my lips; it was before your face.
Jeremiah 17:17 Be not a terror to me; you are my refuge in the day of disaster.
Jeremiah 17:18 bring upon them the day of disaster; destroy them with double destruction!
Jeremiah 17:19 Thus said the LORD to me: “Go and stand in the People's Gate, by which the kings of Judah enter and by which they go out, and in all the gates of Jerusalem,
Jeremiah 17:20 and say: ‘Hear the word of the LORD, you kings of Judah, and all Judah, and all the inhabitants of Jerusalem, who enter by these gates.
Jeremiah 17:21 Thus says the LORD: Take care for the sake of your lives, and do not bear a burden on the Sabbath day or bring it in by the gates of Jerusalem.
Jeremiah 17:22 And do not carry a burden out of your houses on the Sabbath keep the Sabbath day holy, as I commanded your fathers.
Jeremiah 17:23 Yet might not hear and receive instruction.
Jeremiah 17:24 “‘But if you listen to me, declares the LORD, and keep the Sabbath day holy and do no work on it,
Jeremiah 17:25 then there shall enter by the gates of this city kings and princes who sit on the throne of David, riding in chariots and on horses, they and their officials, the men of Judah and the inhabitants of Jerusalem. And this city shall be inhabited forever.
Jeremiah 17:26 And people shall come from bringing thank offerings to the house of the LORD.
Jeremiah 17:27 But if you do not listen to me, to shall not be quenched.’”
Jeremiah 18:1 The word that came to Jeremiah from the LORD:
Jeremiah 18:2 “Arise, and go down to  my words.”
Jeremiah 18:3 So I went down to the potter's house, and there he was working at his wheel.
Jeremiah 18:4 And the vessel he was making of clay was he reworked it into another vessel, as it seemed good to the potter to do.
Jeremiah 18:5 Then the word of the LORD came to me:
Jeremiah 18:6 “O house of Israel, Behold, like the clay in the potter's hand, so are you in my hand, O house of Israel.
Jeremiah 18:7 If at any time I declare concerning a nation or a kingdom, that I will pluck up and break down and destroy it,
Jeremiah 18:8 and if that nation, concerning which I have spoken, I will relent of the disaster that I intended to do to it.
Jeremiah 18:9 And if at any time I declare concerning a nation or a kingdom that I will build and plant it,
Jeremiah 18:10 and if it does evil in my sight, not listening to my voice, then I will relent of the good that I had intended to do to it.
Jeremiah 18:11 Now, therefore, say to the men of Judah and the inhabitants of Jerusalem: ‘Thus says the LORD, Behold, I am shaping disaster against you and devising a plan against you. amend your ways and your deeds.’
Jeremiah 18:12 “But they say, the stubbornness of his evil heart.’
Jeremiah 18:13 “Therefore thus says the LORD:  a very horrible thing.
Jeremiah 18:14 Does the snow of Lebanon leave the crags of Sirion?  the cold flowing streams?
Jeremiah 18:15 not the highway,
Jeremiah 18:16 making their landand shakes his head.
Jeremiah 18:17 I will show them my back, not my face, in the day of their calamity.”
Jeremiah 18:18 Then they said, Come, let us strike him with the tongue, and let us not pay attention to any of his words.”
Jeremiah 18:19 Hear me, O LORD, and listen to the voice of my adversaries.
Jeremiah 18:20 Remember how I stood before you to speak good for them, to turn away your wrath from them.
Jeremiah 18:21 Therefore and widowed. May their men meet death by pestilence, their youths be struck down by the sword in battle.
Jeremiah 18:22 and laid snares for my feet.
Jeremiah 18:23 YetForgive not their iniquity, nor blot out their sin from your sight. Let them be overthrown before you; deal with them in the time of your anger.
Jeremiah 19:1 Thus says the LORD, “Go, buy the elders of the priests,
Jeremiah 19:2 and go out to the Valley of the Son of Hinnom at the entry of the Potsherd Gate, and proclaim there the words that I tell you.
Jeremiah 19:3 You shall say, the ears of everyone who hears of it will tingle.
Jeremiah 19:4  and because they have filled this place with the blood of innocents,
Jeremiah 19:5  which I did not command or decree, nor did it come into my mind —
Jeremiah 19:6 therefore, the Valley of the Son of Hinnom, but the Valley of Slaughter.
Jeremiah 19:7 And in this place I will give their dead bodies for food to the birds of the air and to the beasts of the earth.
Jeremiah 19:8 And I will make this city a thing to be hissed at. Everyone who passes by it will be horrified and will hiss because of all its wounds.
Jeremiah 19:9  in the siege and in the distress, with which their enemies and those who seek their life afflict them.’
Jeremiah 19:10 “Then the flask in the sight of the men who go with you,
Jeremiah 19:11 and shall say to them, ‘Thus says the LORD of hosts: So will I break this people and this city, Men shall bury in Topheth because there will be no place else to bury.
Jeremiah 19:12 Thus will I do to this place, declares the LORD, and to its inhabitants, making this city like Topheth.
Jeremiah 19:13 The houses of Jerusalem and the houses of the kings of Judah — like the place of Topheth.’”
Jeremiah 19:14 Then Jeremiah came from and he stood in the court of the LORD's house and said to all the people:
Jeremiah 19:15 “Thus says the LORD of hosts, the God of Israel, behold, I am bringing upon this city and upon all its towns all the disaster that I have pronounced against it, refusing to hear my words.”
Jeremiah 20:1 Now chief officer in the house of the LORD, heard Jeremiah prophesying these things.
Jeremiah 20:2 Then Benjamin Gate of the house of the LORD.
Jeremiah 20:3 The next day, when Pashhur, but Terror on Every Side.
Jeremiah 20:4 For thus says the LORD: Behold, I will make you a terror to yourself and to all your friends. They shall fall by the sword of their enemies while you look on. And I will give all Judah into the hand of the king of Babylon. He shall carry them captive to Babylon, and shall strike them down with the sword.
Jeremiah 20:5 Moreover, prized belongings, and all the treasures of the kings of Judah into the hand of their enemies, who shall plunder them and seize them and carry them to Babylon.
Jeremiah 20:6 And you, to whom you have prophesied falsely.”
Jeremiah 20:7 O LORD,I have become a laughingstock all the day; everyone mocks me.
Jeremiah 20:8 For whenever I speak, I cry out, I shout, derision all day long.
Jeremiah 20:9 If I say, “I will not mention him, or speak any more in his name,”  I am weary with holding it in, and I cannot.
Jeremiah 20:10  we can overcome him and take our revenge on him.”
Jeremiah 20:11 But eternal dishonor will never be forgotten.
Jeremiah 20:12 O LORD of hosts, who tests the righteous,   let me see your vengeance upon them, for to you have I committed my cause.
Jeremiah 20:13  Sing to the LORD; praise the LORD! For he has delivered the life of the needy from the hand of evildoers.
Jeremiah 20:14  Cursed be the day on which I was born! The day when my mother bore me, let it not be blessed!
Jeremiah 20:15 Cursed be the man who brought the news to my father, “A son is born to you,” making him very glad.
Jeremiah 20:16 Let that man be likelet him hear a cry in the morning and an alarm at noon,
Jeremiah 20:17  because he did not kill me in the womb; so my mother would have been my grave, and her womb forever great.
Jeremiah 20:18 to see toil and sorrow, and spend my days in shame?
Jeremiah 21:1 This is the word that came to Jeremiah from the LORD, when King Zedekiah sent to him Maaseiah, saying,
Jeremiah 21:2  all his wonderful deeds and will make him withdraw from us.”
Jeremiah 21:3 Then Jeremiah said to them: “Thus you shall say to Zedekiah,
Jeremiah 21:4 ‘Thus says the LORD, the God of Israel: And I will bring them together into the midst of this city.
Jeremiah 21:5 I myself will fight against you in anger and in fury and in great wrath.
Jeremiah 21:6 And I will strike down the inhabitants of this city, both man and beast. They shall die of a great pestilence.
Jeremiah 21:7 Afterward, declares the LORD, He shall not pity them or spare them or have compassion.’
Jeremiah 21:8 “And to this people you shall say: I set before you the way of life and the way of death.
Jeremiah 21:9 He who stays in this city shall die and shall have his life as a prize of war.
Jeremiah 21:10 For it shall be given into the hand of the king of Babylon, and he shall burn it with fire.’
Jeremiah 21:11 “And to the house of the king of Judah say, ‘Hear the word of the LORD,
Jeremiah 21:12 O house of David! Thus says the LORD: lest my wrath go forth like fire, and burn with none to quench it, because of your evil deeds.’”
Jeremiah 21:13  ‘Who shall come down against us, or who shall enter our habitations?’
Jeremiah 21:14 and it shall devour all that is around her.”
Jeremiah 22:1 Thus says the LORD: “Go down to the house of the king of Judah and speak there this word,
Jeremiah 22:2 and say, ‘Hear the word of the LORD, O king of Judah, who sits on the throne of David, you, and your servants, and your people who enter these gates.
Jeremiah 22:3 Thus says the LORD: shed innocent blood in this place.
Jeremiah 22:4 For if you will indeed obey this word, then there shall enter the gates of this house kings who sit on the throne of David, riding in chariots and on horses, they and their servants and their people.
Jeremiah 22:5 But if you will not obey these words, I this house shall become a desolation.
Jeremiah 22:6 For thus says the LORD concerning the house of the king of Judah: “‘You are like Gilead to me, like the summit of
Jeremiah 22:7 and they shall cut down your choicest cedars and cast them into the fire.
Jeremiah 22:8 “‘And many nations will pass by this city, and every man will say to his neighbor, “Why has the LORD dealt thus with this great city?”
Jeremiah 22:9  And they will answer, “Because they have forsaken the covenant of the LORD their God and worshiped other gods and served them.”’”
Jeremiah 22:10 but weep bitterly for him who goes away, for he shall return no more to see his native land.
Jeremiah 22:11 For thus says the LORD concerning Shallum the son of Josiah, king of Judah, who reigned instead of Josiah his father, and who went away from this place: “He shall return here no more,
Jeremiah 22:12 but in the place where they have carried him captive, there shall he die, and he shall never see this land again.”
Jeremiah 22:13 who makes his neighbor serve him for nothing and does not give him his wages,
Jeremiah 22:14 who says, ‘I will build myself a great house with spacious upper rooms,’ who cuts out windows for it, paneling it with cedar and painting it with vermilion.
Jeremiah 22:15 Do you think you are a king because you compete in cedar? Did not your father eat and drink andThen it was well with him.
Jeremiah 22:16  to know me? declares the LORD.
Jeremiah 22:17 But you have eyes and heart only for your dishonest gain, for shedding innocent blood, and for practicing oppression and violence.”
Jeremiah 22:18 Therefore thus says the LORD concerning Jehoiakim the son of Josiah, king of Judah: ‘Ah, lord!’ or ‘Ah, his majesty!’
Jeremiah 22:19 With the burial of a donkey he shall be buried, dragged and dumped beyond the gates of Jerusalem.”
Jeremiah 22:20 “Go up to Lebanon, and cry out, and lift up your voice in Bashan; cry out from your lovers are destroyed.
Jeremiah 22:21 I spoke to you in your prosperity, but you said, ‘I will not listen.’  your youth, that you have not obeyed my voice.
Jeremiah 22:22 then you will be ashamed and confounded because of all your evil.
Jeremiah 22:23 O inhabitant ofpain as of a woman in labor!”
Jeremiah 22:24  the signet ring on my right hand, yet I would tear you off
Jeremiah 22:25 and into the hand of those who seek your life, into the hand of those of whom you are afraid, even into the hand of Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon and into the hand of the Chaldeans.
Jeremiah 22:26  the mother who bore you into another country, where you were not born, and there you shall die.
Jeremiah 22:27 But to the land to which they will long to return, there they shall not return.”
Jeremiah 22:28 Is this man land that they do not know?
Jeremiah 22:29  O land, land, land, hear the word of the LORD!
Jeremiah 22:30 Thus says the LORD: “Write this man down asin sitting on the throne of David and ruling again in Judah.”
Jeremiah 23:1  “Woe to the shepherds who destroy and scatter the sheep of my pasture!” declares the LORD.
Jeremiah 23:2 Therefore thus says the LORD, the God of Israel, concerning Behold, I will attend to you for your evil deeds, declares the LORD.
Jeremiah 23:3  and they shall be fruitful and multiply.
Jeremiah 23:4  I will set shepherds over them who will care for them, and they shall fear no more, nor be dismayed, neither shall any be missing, declares the LORD.
Jeremiah 23:5  he shall reign as king and deal wisely, and shall execute justice and righteousness in the land.
Jeremiah 23:6 In his days Judah will be saved, and ‘The LORD is our righteousness.’
Jeremiah 23:7  “Therefore, behold, the days are coming, declares the LORD, when they shall no longer say, ‘As the LORD lives who brought up the people of Israel out of the land of Egypt,’
Jeremiah 23:8 but ‘As the LORD lives who brought up and led the offspring of the house of Israel out of the north country and out of all the countries where he  had driven them.’ Then they shall dwell in their own land.”
Jeremiah 23:9 Concerning the prophets: all my bones shake; I am like a drunken man, like a man overcome by wine, because of the LORD and because of his holy words.
Jeremiah 23:10 Their course is evil, and their might is not right.
Jeremiah 23:11  in my house I have found their evil, declares the LORD.
Jeremiah 23:12 in the year of their punishment, declares the LORD.
Jeremiah 23:13 In the prophets ofand led my people Israel astray.
Jeremiah 23:14 But in the prophets of Jerusalem I have seen a horrible thing: and its inhabitants like Gomorrah.”
Jeremiah 23:15 Therefore thus says the LORD of hosts concerning the prophets:  poisoned water to drink, for from the prophets of Jerusalem ungodliness has gone out into all the land.”
Jeremiah 23:16 Thus says the LORD of hosts: “Do not listen to the words of the prophets who prophesy to you, They speak visions of their own minds, not from the mouth of the LORD.
Jeremiah 23:17 They say continually to those who despise the word of the LORD, ‘No disaster shall come upon you.’”
Jeremiah 23:18 For who among them has stood in the council of the LORD to see and to hear his word, or who has paid attention to his word and listened?
Jeremiah 23:19 a whirling tempest; it will burst upon the head of the wicked.
Jeremiah 23:20 In the latter days you will understand it clearly.
Jeremiah 23:21  “I did not send the prophets, yet they ran; I did not speak to them, yet they prophesied.
Jeremiah 23:22  from the evil of their deeds.
Jeremiah 23:23  “Am I a God at hand, declares the LORD, and not a God far away?
Jeremiah 23:24  Do I not fill heaven and earth? declares the LORD.
Jeremiah 23:25 I have heard what the prophets have said ‘I have dreamed, I have dreamed!’
Jeremiah 23:26 How long shall there be lies in the heart of the prophets who prophesy lies, and who prophesy the deceit of their own heart,
Jeremiah 23:27 who think to make my people forget my name fathers forgot my name for Baal?
Jeremiah 23:28  What has straw in common with wheat? declares the LORD.
Jeremiah 23:29  like a hammer that breaks the rock in pieces?
Jeremiah 23:30  Therefore, behold, I am against the prophets, declares the LORD, who steal my words from one another.
Jeremiah 23:31 Behold, I am against the prophets, declares the LORD, who use their tongues and declare, ‘declares the LORD.’
Jeremiah 23:32 Behold, I am against those who prophesy lying dreams, declares the LORD, and who tell them and I did not send them or charge them. So they do not profit this people at all, declares the LORD.
Jeremiah 23:33  I will cast you off, declares the LORD.’
Jeremiah 23:34 And as for the prophet, priest, or one of the people who says, ‘The burden of the LORD,’ I will punish that man and his household.
Jeremiah 23:35 Thus shall you say, every one to his neighbor and every one to his brother, ‘What has the LORD answered?’ or ‘What has the LORD spoken?’
Jeremiah 23:36 But ‘the burden of the LORD’ you shall mention no more, for the burden is every man's own word, and the living God, the LORD of hosts, our God.
Jeremiah 23:37 Thus you shall say to the prophet, ‘What has the LORD answered you?’ or ‘What has the LORD spoken?’
Jeremiah 23:38 But if you say, ‘The burden of the LORD,’ thus says the LORD, ‘Because you have said these words, “The burden of the LORD,” when I sent to you, saying, “You shall not say, ‘The burden of the LORD,’”
Jeremiah 23:39 therefore, behold, I will surely lift you up cast you away from my presence, you and the city that I gave to you and your fathers.
Jeremiah 23:40  perpetual shame, which shall not be forgotten.’”
Jeremiah 24:1  two baskets of figs placed before the temple of the LORD.
Jeremiah 24:2 One basket had very good figs, very bad figs, so bad that they could not be eaten.
Jeremiah 24:3 And the LORD said to me, “What do you see, Jeremiah?” I said, “Figs, the good figs very good, and the bad figs very bad, so bad that they cannot be eaten.”
Jeremiah 24:4 Then the word of the LORD came to me:
Jeremiah 24:5 “Thus says the LORD, the God of Israel: Like these good figs, so I will regard as good the exiles from Judah, whom I have sent away from this place to the land of the Chaldeans.
Jeremiah 24:6  I will plant them, and not pluck them up.
Jeremiah 24:7  for they shall return to me with their whole heart.
Jeremiah 24:8 “But thus says the LORD: Like dwell in the land of Egypt.
Jeremiah 24:9 I will make them a curse in all the places where I shall drive them.
Jeremiah 24:10 And I will send sword, famine, and pestilence upon them, until they shall be utterly destroyed from the land that I gave to them and their fathers.”
Jeremiah 25:1  The word that came to Jeremiah concerning all the people of Judah, in the fourth year of Jehoiakim the son of Josiah, king of Judah (that was the first year of Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon),
Jeremiah 25:2 which Jeremiah the prophet spoke to all the people of Judah and all the inhabitants of Jerusalem:
Jeremiah 25:3 “For twenty-three years, but you have not listened.
Jeremiah 25:4  persistently sent to you all his servants the prophets,
Jeremiah 25:5 saying, dwell upon the land that the LORD has given to you and your fathers from of old and forever.
Jeremiah 25:6  with the work of your hands. Then I will do you no harm.’
Jeremiah 25:7  with the work of your hands to your own harm.
Jeremiah 25:8 “Therefore thus says the LORD of hosts: Because you have not obeyed my words,
Jeremiah 25:9  and make them a horror, a hissing, and an everlasting desolation.
Jeremiah 25:10 Moreover, the light of the lamp.
Jeremiah 25:11  seventy years.
Jeremiah 25:12 Then after making the land an everlasting waste.
Jeremiah 25:13 I will bring upon that land all the words that I have uttered against it, everything written in this book, which Jeremiah prophesied against all the nations.
Jeremiah 25:14  and I will recompense them according to their deeds and the work of their hands.”
Jeremiah 25:15 Thus the LORD, the God of Israel, said to me: “Take from my hand this cup of the wine of wrath, and make all the nations to whom I send you drink it.
Jeremiah 25:16 They shall drink and stagger and be crazed because of the sword that I am sending among them.”
Jeremiah 25:17 So I took the cup from the LORD's hand, and made all the nations to whom the LORD sent me drink it:
Jeremiah 25:18  to make them a desolation and a waste, a hissing and a curse, as at this day;
Jeremiah 25:19  Pharaoh king of Egypt, his servants, his officials, all his people,
Jeremiah 25:20 and Ashdod);
Jeremiah 25:21  Ammon;
Jeremiah 25:22 all the kings of the sea;
Jeremiah 25:23  the corners of their hair;
Jeremiah 25:24 all the the mixed tribes who dwell in the desert;
Jeremiah 25:25 all the kings of Zimri, all the kings of Media;
Jeremiah 25:26 all the kings of  shall drink.
Jeremiah 25:27 “Then you shall say to them, ‘Thus says the LORD of hosts, the God of Israel: the sword that I am sending among you.’
Jeremiah 25:28 “And if they refuse to accept the cup from your hand to drink, then you shall say to them, ‘Thus says the LORD of hosts: You must drink!
Jeremiah 25:29 For behold, for I am summoning a sword against all the inhabitants of the earth, declares the LORD of hosts.’
Jeremiah 25:30 “You, therefore, shall prophesy against them all these words, and say to them: and shout, like those who tread grapes, against all the inhabitants of the earth.
Jeremiah 25:31 The clamor will resound to the ends of the earth, forhe is entering into judgment with all flesh, and the wicked he will put to the sword, declares the LORD.’
Jeremiah 25:32 “Thus says the LORD of hosts: Behold, disaster is going forth from nation to nation, from the farthest parts of the earth!
Jeremiah 25:33  they shall be dung on the surface of the ground.
Jeremiah 25:34 and roll in ashes, you lords of the flock, for the days of your slaughter and dispersion have come, and you shall fall like a choice vessel.
Jeremiah 25:35 No refuge will remain for the shepherds, nor escape for the lords of the flock.
Jeremiah 25:36 A voice — the cryand the wail of the lords of the flock! For the LORD is laying waste their pasture,
Jeremiah 25:37 because of the fierce anger of the LORD.
Jeremiah 25:38 Like a lionand because of his fierce anger.”
Jeremiah 26:1  Jehoiakim the son of Josiah, king of Judah, this word came from the LORD:
Jeremiah 26:2 “Thus says the LORD: do not hold back a word.
Jeremiah 26:3  because of their evil deeds.
Jeremiah 26:4 You shall say to them, ‘Thus says the LORD: If you will not listen to me, to walk in my law that I have set before you,
Jeremiah 26:5  though you have not listened,
Jeremiah 26:6 then I will make this house a curse for all the nations of the earth.’”
Jeremiah 26:7  The priests and the prophets and all the people heard Jeremiah speaking these words in the house of the LORD.
Jeremiah 26:8 And when Jeremiah had finished speaking all that the LORD had commanded him to speak to all the people, then the priests and the prophets and all the people laid hold of him, saying, “You shall die!
Jeremiah 26:9 Why have you prophesied in the name of the LORD, saying, ‘This house shall be without inhabitant’?” And all the people gathered around Jeremiah in the house of the LORD.
Jeremiah 26:10 When entry of the New Gate of the house of the LORD.
Jeremiah 26:11 Then “This man deserves the sentence of death, because he has prophesied against this city, as you have heard with your own ears.”
Jeremiah 26:12 Then Jeremiah spoke to all the officials and all the people, saying, “The LORD sent me to prophesy against this house and this city all the words you have heard.
Jeremiah 26:13 Now therefore and the LORD will relent of the disaster that he has pronounced against you.
Jeremiah 26:14  But as for me, behold, I am in your hands. Do with me as seems good and right to you.
Jeremiah 26:15 Only know for certain that if you put me to death, you will bring innocent blood upon yourselves and upon this city and its inhabitants, for in truth the LORD sent me to you to speak all these words in your ears.”
Jeremiah 26:16  “This man does not deserve the sentence of death, for he has spoken to us in the name of the LORD our God.”
Jeremiah 26:17  the elders of the land arose and spoke to all the assembled people, saying,
Jeremiah 26:18 “Micah of Moresheth prophesied in the days of Hezekiah king of Judah, and said to all the people of Judah: ‘Thus says the LORD of hosts, “‘Zion shall be plowed as a field; Jerusalem shall become a heap of ruins, and the mountain of the house a wooded height.’
Jeremiah 26:19 Did Hezekiah king of Judah and all Judah put him to death? But we are about to bring great disaster upon ourselves.”
Jeremiah 26:20 There was another man who prophesied in the name of the LORD, Uriah the son of Shemaiah from Kiriath-jearim. He prophesied against this city and against this land in words like those of Jeremiah.
Jeremiah 26:21 And when King Jehoiakim, with all his warriors and all the officials, heard his words, the king sought to put him to death. But when Uriah heard of it, he was afraid and fled and escaped to Egypt.
Jeremiah 26:22 Then Achbor and others with him,
Jeremiah 26:23 and they took Uriah from Egypt and brought him to King Jehoiakim, who struck him down with the sword and dumped his dead body into the burial place of the common people.
Jeremiah 26:24 But the hand of Ahikam the son of Shaphan was with Jeremiah so that he was not given over to the people to be put to death.
Jeremiah 27:1 In the beginning of the reign of Zedekiah  the son of Josiah, king of Judah, this word came to Jeremiah from the LORD.
Jeremiah 27:2 Thus the LORD said to me: yoke-bars, and put them on your neck.
Jeremiah 27:3 Send word Tyre, and the king of Sidon by the hand of the envoys who have come to Jerusalem to Zedekiah king of Judah.
Jeremiah 27:4 Give them this charge for their masters: ‘Thus says the LORD of hosts, the God of Israel: This is what you shall say to your masters:
Jeremiah 27:5 “It is I who and I give it to whomever it seems right to me.
Jeremiah 27:6  and I have given him also the beasts of the field to serve him.
Jeremiah 27:7  Then many nations and great kings shall make him their slave.
Jeremiah 27:8 “‘“But if any nation or kingdom will not serve this Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon, with the sword, with famine, and with pestilence, declares the LORD, until I have consumed it by his hand.
Jeremiah 27:9 So fortune-tellers, or your sorcerers, who are saying to you, ‘You shall not serve the king of Babylon.’
Jeremiah 27:10  For it is a lie that they are prophesying to you, with the result that you will be removed far from your land, and I will drive you out, and you will perish.
Jeremiah 27:11  But any nation that will bring its neck under the yoke of the king of Babylon and serve him, I will leave on its own land, to work it and dwell there, declares the LORD.”’”
Jeremiah 27:12 To serve him and his people and live.
Jeremiah 27:13  as the LORD has spoken concerning any nation that will not serve the king of Babylon?
Jeremiah 27:14  for it is a lie that they are prophesying to you.
Jeremiah 27:15 I have not sent them, declares the LORD, but they are prophesying falsely in my name, with the result that I will drive you out and you will perish, you and the prophets who are prophesying to you.”
Jeremiah 27:16 Then I spoke to the priests and to all this people, saying, “Thus says the LORD: for it is a lie that they are prophesying to you.
Jeremiah 27:17  become a desolation?
Jeremiah 27:18 If they are prophets, and if the word of the LORD is with them, then that the vessels that are left in the house of the LORD, in the house of the king of Judah, and in Jerusalem may not go to Babylon.
Jeremiah 27:19  For thus says the LORD of hosts concerning the pillars, the sea, the stands, and the rest of the vessels that are left in this city,
Jeremiah 27:20 which Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon did not take away, when he took into exile from Jerusalem to Babylon Jeconiah the son of Jehoiakim, king of Judah, and all the nobles of Judah and Jerusalem —
Jeremiah 27:21 thus says the LORD of hosts, the God of Israel, concerning the vessels that are left in the house of the LORD, in the house of the king of Judah, and in Jerusalem:
Jeremiah 27:22  and restore them to this place.”
Jeremiah 28:1 In that same year, at the beginning of the reign of Gibeon, spoke to me in the house of the LORD, in the presence of the priests and all the people, saying,
Jeremiah 28:2 “Thus says the LORD of hosts, the God of Israel: I have broken the yoke of the king of Babylon.
Jeremiah 28:3  two years I will bring back to this place all the vessels of the LORD's house, which Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon took away from this place and carried to Babylon.
Jeremiah 28:4 I will also bring back to this place for I will break the yoke of the king of Babylon.”
Jeremiah 28:5 Then the prophet Jeremiah spoke to Hananiah the prophet in the presence of the priests and all the people who were standing in the house of the LORD,
Jeremiah 28:6 and the prophet Jeremiah said, “Amen! May the LORD do so; may the LORD make the words that you have prophesied come true, and bring back to this place from Babylon the vessels of the house of the LORD, and all the exiles.
Jeremiah 28:7 Yet hear now this word that I speak in your hearing and in the hearing of all the people.
Jeremiah 28:8  The prophets who preceded you and me from ancient times prophesied war, famine, and pestilence against many countries and great kingdoms.
Jeremiah 28:9  As for the prophet who prophesies peace, when the word of that prophet comes to pass, then it will be known that the LORD has truly sent the prophet.”
Jeremiah 28:10 Then the prophet Hananiah took the yoke-bars from the neck of Jeremiah the prophet and broke them.
Jeremiah 28:11 And Hananiah spoke in the presence of all the people, saying, all the nations within two years.” But Jeremiah the prophet went his way.
Jeremiah 28:12 Sometime after the prophet Hananiah had broken the yoke-bars from off the neck of Jeremiah the prophet, the word of the LORD came to Jeremiah:
Jeremiah 28:13 “Go, tell Hananiah, ‘Thus says the LORD: You have broken wooden bars, but you have made in their place bars of iron.
Jeremiah 28:14 For thus says the LORD of hosts, the God of Israel: I have put upon the neck of all these nations for I have given to him even the beasts of the field.’”
Jeremiah 28:15 And Jeremiah the prophet said to the prophet Hananiah, “Listen, Hananiah, and you have made this people trust in a lie.
Jeremiah 28:16 Therefore thus says the LORD: ‘Behold, I will remove you from the face of the earth. This year you shall die, because you have uttered rebellion against the LORD.’”
Jeremiah 28:17 In that same year, in the seventh month, the prophet Hananiah died.
Jeremiah 29:1 These are the words of the letter that Jeremiah the prophet sent from Jerusalem to all the people, whom Nebuchadnezzar had taken into exile from Jerusalem to Babylon.
Jeremiah 29:2 This was after King Jeconiah and the queen mother, the eunuchs, the officials of Judah and Jerusalem, the craftsmen, and the metal workers had departed from Jerusalem.
Jeremiah 29:3 The letter was sent by the hand of Elasah the son of Hilkiah, whom Zedekiah king of Judah sent to Babylon to Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon. It said:
Jeremiah 29:4 “Thus says the LORD of hosts, the God of Israel, to all the exiles whom I have sent into exile from Jerusalem to Babylon:
Jeremiah 29:5  Build houses and live in them; plant gardens and eat their produce.
Jeremiah 29:6 Take wives and have sons and daughters; take wives for your sons, and give your daughters in marriage, that they may bear sons and daughters; multiply there, and do not decrease.
Jeremiah 29:7 But seek the welfare of the city where I have sent you into exile, and pray to the LORD on its behalf, for in its welfare you will find your welfare.
Jeremiah 29:8 For thus says the LORD of hosts, the God of Israel:
Jeremiah 29:9 for I did not send them, declares the LORD.
Jeremiah 29:10 “For thus says the LORD: and bring you back to this place.
Jeremiah 29:11  to give you a future and a hope.
Jeremiah 29:12  and I will hear you.
Jeremiah 29:13  with all your heart.
Jeremiah 29:14 I will be found by you, declares the LORD, where I have driven you, declares the LORD, and I will bring you back to the place from which I sent you into exile.
Jeremiah 29:15 “Because you have said, ‘The LORD has raised up prophets for us in Babylon,’
Jeremiah 29:16 thus says the LORD concerning the king who sits on the throne of David, and concerning all the people who dwell in this city, your kinsmen who did not go out with you into exile:
Jeremiah 29:17 ‘Thus says the LORD of hosts, behold, I am sending on them vile figs that are so rotten they cannot be eaten.
Jeremiah 29:18 I will pursue them with where I have driven them,
Jeremiah 29:19 because they did not pay attention to my words, declares the LORD, that I persistently sent to you by my servants the prophets, but you would not listen, declares the LORD.’
Jeremiah 29:20 Hear the word of the LORD, all you exiles whom I sent away from Jerusalem to Babylon:
Jeremiah 29:21 ‘Thus says the LORD of hosts, the God of Israel, concerning Ahab the son of Kolaiah and Zedekiah the son of Maaseiah, who are prophesying a lie to you in my name: Behold, I will deliver them into the hand of Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon, and he shall strike them down before your eyes.
Jeremiah 29:22  whom the king of Babylon roasted in the fire,”
Jeremiah 29:23 because they have done an outrageous thing in Israel, and I am witness, declares the LORD.’”
Jeremiah 29:24 To Shemaiah of Nehelam you shall say:
Jeremiah 29:25 “Thus says the LORD of hosts, the God of Israel: You have sent letters in your name to all the people who are in Jerusalem, and to Maaseiah the priest, and to all the priests, saying,
Jeremiah 29:26 ‘The LORD has made you priest instead of Jehoiada the priest, to have the stocks and neck irons.
Jeremiah 29:27 Now why have you not rebuked Jeremiah of Anathoth who is prophesying to you?
Jeremiah 29:28 For he has sent to us in Babylon, saying, “Your exile will be long; build houses and live in them, and plant gardens and eat their produce.”’”
Jeremiah 29:29  Zephaniah the priest read this letter in the hearing of Jeremiah the prophet.
Jeremiah 29:30  Then the word of the LORD came to Jeremiah:
Jeremiah 29:31 “Send to all the exiles, saying, ‘Thus says the LORD concerning when I did not send him, and has made you trust in a lie,
Jeremiah 29:32 therefore thus says the LORD: Behold, I will punish for he has spoken rebellion against the LORD.’”
Jeremiah 30:1 The word that came to Jeremiah from the LORD:
Jeremiah 30:2 “Thus says the LORD, the God of Israel: Write in a book all the words that I have spoken to you.
Jeremiah 30:3  and I will bring them back to the land that I gave to their fathers, and they shall take possession of it.”
Jeremiah 30:4 These are the words that the LORD spoke concerning Israel and Judah:
Jeremiah 30:5 “Thus says the LORD: We have heard a cry of panic, of terror, and no peace.
Jeremiah 30:6 Ask now, and see, can a man bear a child? Why has every face turned pale?
Jeremiah 30:7 Alas!there is none like it; it is a time of distress for Jacob; yet he shall be saved out of it.
Jeremiah 30:8 “And it shall come to pass in that day, declares the LORD of hosts, that I will
Jeremiah 30:9 But they shall serve the LORD their God and David their king, whom I will raise up for them.
Jeremiah 30:10 Jacob shall return and have quiet and ease, and none shall make him afraid.
Jeremiah 30:11  discipline you in just measure, and I will by no means leave you unpunished.
Jeremiah 30:12 “For thus says the LORD: and your wound is grievous.
Jeremiah 30:13 There is none to uphold your cause, no medicine for your wound, no healing for you.
Jeremiah 30:14 because your sins are flagrant.
Jeremiah 30:15 because your sins are flagrant, I have done these things to you.
Jeremiah 30:16 and all who prey on you I will make a prey.
Jeremiah 30:17 ‘It is Zion, for whom no one cares!’
Jeremiah 30:18 “Thus says the LORD: Behold, its mound, and the palace shall stand where it used to be.
Jeremiah 30:19 I will multiply them, and they shall not be few; I will make them honored, and they shall not be small.
Jeremiah 30:20  Their children shall be as they were of old, and their congregation shall be established before me, and I will punish all who oppress them.
Jeremiah 30:21 for who would dare of himself to approach me? declares the LORD.
Jeremiah 30:22  And you shall be my people, and I will be your God.”
Jeremiah 30:23  the storm of the LORD! Wrath has gone forth, a whirling tempest; it will burst upon the head of the wicked.
Jeremiah 30:24 In the latter days you will understand this.
Jeremiah 31:1  I will be the God of all the clans of Israel, and they shall be my people.”
Jeremiah 31:2 Thus says the LORD: “The people who survived the sword found grace in the wilderness; when Israel sought for rest,
Jeremiah 31:3 the LORD appeared to him my faithfulness to you.
Jeremiah 31:4  the dance of the merrymakers.
Jeremiah 31:5  Again you shall plant vineyards on the mountains of Samaria; the planters shall plant and shall enjoy the fruit.
Jeremiah 31:6 For there shall be a day when watchmen will call in‘Arise, and let us go up to Zion, to the LORD our God.’”
Jeremiah 31:7 For thus says the LORD: ‘O LORD, save your people, the remnant of Israel.’
Jeremiah 31:8 Behold, I will bring them the blind and the lame, the pregnant woman and she who is in labor, together; a great company, they shall return here.
Jeremiah 31:9  my firstborn.
Jeremiah 31:10 “Hear the word of the LORD, O nations, and declare it in the coastlands far away; say, ‘He who scattered Israel will as a shepherd keeps his flock.’
Jeremiah 31:11  hands too strong for him.
Jeremiah 31:12 They shall come and sing aloud on the height of Zion, and they shall languish no more.
Jeremiah 31:13 I will turn their mourning into joy; I will comfort them, and give them gladness for sorrow.
Jeremiah 31:14  I will feast the soul of the priests with abundance, and my people shall be satisfied with my goodness, declares the LORD.”
Jeremiah 31:15 Thus says the LORD: because they are no more.”
Jeremiah 31:16 Thus says the LORD: “Keep your voice from weeping, and your eyes from tears, for there is a reward for your work, declares the LORD, and they shall come back from the land of the enemy.
Jeremiah 31:17  There is hope for your future, declares the LORD, and your children shall come back to their own country.
Jeremiah 31:18 I have heardbring me back that I may be restored, for you are the LORD my God.
Jeremiah 31:19 For afterI was ashamed, and I was confounded, because I bore the disgrace of my youth.’
Jeremiah 31:20   yearns for him; I will surely have mercy on him, declares the LORD.
Jeremiah 31:21 the road by which you went. Return, O virgin Israel, return to these your cities.
Jeremiah 31:22 O faithless daughter? For the LORD has created a new thing on the earth: a woman encircles a man.”
Jeremiah 31:23 Thus says the LORD of hosts, the God of Israel: “Once more they shall use these words in the land of Judah and in its cities,O holy hill!’
Jeremiah 31:24  the farmers and those who wander with their flocks.
Jeremiah 31:25 For I will satisfy the weary soul, and every languishing soul I will replenish.”
Jeremiah 31:26 At this I awoke and looked, and my sleep was pleasant to me.
Jeremiah 31:27  the seed of man and the seed of beast.
Jeremiah 31:28 And it shall come to pass that to build and to plant, declares the LORD.
Jeremiah 31:29 In those days they shall no longer say: “‘The fathers have eaten sour grapes, and the children's teeth are set on edge.’
Jeremiah 31:30  But everyone shall die for his own iniquity. Each man who eats sour grapes, his teeth shall be set on edge.
Jeremiah 31:31  a new covenant with the house of Israel and the house of Judah,
Jeremiah 31:32 not like the covenant that I made with their fathers on the day when though I was their husband, declares the LORD.
Jeremiah 31:33  And I will be their God, and they shall be my people.
Jeremiah 31:34 And no longer shall each one teach his neighbor and each his brother, saying, ‘Know the LORD,’ I will remember their sin no more.”
Jeremiah 31:35 Thus says the LORD, whothe LORD of hosts is his name:
Jeremiah 31:36  “If this fixed order departs from before me, declares the LORD, then shall the offspring of Israel cease from being a nation before me forever.”
Jeremiah 31:37 Thus says the LORD: “If the heavens above can be measured, and the foundations of the earth below can be explored, then I will cast off all the offspring of Israel for all that they have done, declares the LORD.”
Jeremiah 31:38  the Corner Gate.
Jeremiah 31:39  And the measuring line shall go out farther, straight to the hill Gareb, and shall then turn to Goah.
Jeremiah 31:40  It shall not be plucked up or overthrown anymore forever.”
Jeremiah 32:1 The word that came to Jeremiah from the LORD which was the eighteenth year of Nebuchadnezzar.
Jeremiah 32:2 At that time the army of the king of Babylon was besieging Jerusalem, and Jeremiah the prophet the court of the guard that was in the palace of the king of Judah.
Jeremiah 32:3 For Zedekiah king of Judah had imprisoned him, saying, “Why do you prophesy and say, ‘Thus says the LORD: Behold, I am giving this city into the hand of the king of Babylon, and he shall capture it;
Jeremiah 32:4  but shall surely be given into the hand of the king of Babylon, and shall speak with him face to face and see him eye to eye.
Jeremiah 32:5 And Though you fight against the Chaldeans, you shall not succeed’?”
Jeremiah 32:6 Jeremiah said, “The word of the LORD came to me:
Jeremiah 32:7 Behold, Hanamel the son of Shallum your uncle will come to you and say, for the right of redemption by purchase is yours.’
Jeremiah 32:8 Then Hanamel my cousin came to me in Anathoth in the land of Benjamin, for the right of possession and redemption is yours; buy it for yourself.’ Then I knew that this was the word of the LORD.
Jeremiah 32:9 “And I bought the field at weighed out the money to him, seventeen shekels of silver.
Jeremiah 32:10  weighed the money on scales.
Jeremiah 32:11 Then I took the sealed deed of purchase, containing the terms and conditions and the open copy.
Jeremiah 32:12 And I gave the deed of purchase to the court of the guard.
Jeremiah 32:13 I charged Baruch in their presence, saying,
Jeremiah 32:14 ‘Thus says the LORD of hosts, the God of Israel: Take these deeds, both this sealed deed of purchase and this open deed, and put them in an earthenware vessel, that they may last for a long time.
Jeremiah 32:15 For thus says the LORD of hosts, the God of Israel: Houses and fields and vineyards shall again be bought in this land.’
Jeremiah 32:16 “After I had given the deed of purchase to Baruch the son of Neriah, I prayed to the LORD, saying:
Jeremiah 32:17 ‘Ah, Lord GOD! It is Nothing is too hard for you.
Jeremiah 32:18  LORD of hosts,
Jeremiah 32:19  rewarding each one according to his ways and according to the fruit of his deeds.
Jeremiah 32:20 You have shown and have made a name for yourself, as at this day.
Jeremiah 32:21  and with great terror.
Jeremiah 32:22 And you gave them this land, a land flowing with milk and honey.
Jeremiah 32:23 And they entered and took possession of it. But they did not obey your voice or walk in your law. They did nothing of all you commanded them to do. Therefore you have made all this disaster come upon them.
Jeremiah 32:24 Behold, the city is given into the hands of the Chaldeans who are fighting against it. What you spoke has come to pass, and behold, you see it.
Jeremiah 32:25 Yet you, O Lord GOD, have said to me, the city is given into the hands of the Chaldeans.’”
Jeremiah 32:26 The word of the LORD came to Jeremiah:
Jeremiah 32:27 “Behold, I am the LORD, Is anything too hard for me?
Jeremiah 32:28 Therefore, thus says the LORD: Behold, I am giving this city into the hands of the Chaldeans and into the hand of Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon, and he shall capture it.
Jeremiah 32:29 The Chaldeans who are fighting against this city to provoke me to anger.
Jeremiah 32:30 For the children of Israel and the children of Judah have done nothing but evil in my sight by the work of their hands, declares the LORD.
Jeremiah 32:31 This city has aroused my anger and wrath, from the day it was built to this day, so that I will remove it from my sight
Jeremiah 32:32 because of all the evil of the children of Israel and the children of Judah that they did to provoke me to anger — their kings and their officials, their priests and their prophets, the men of Judah and the inhabitants of Jerusalem.
Jeremiah 32:33  to receive instruction.
Jeremiah 32:34 They set up their abominations in the house that is called by my name, to defile it.
Jeremiah 32:35 They built the high places of Baal to cause Judah to sin.
Jeremiah 32:36 “Now therefore thus says the LORD, the God of Israel, concerning this city of which you say, ‘It is given into the hand of the king of Babylon by sword, by famine, and by pestilence’:
Jeremiah 32:37  and I will make them dwell in safety.
Jeremiah 32:38  And they shall be my people, and I will be their God.
Jeremiah 32:39  for their own good and the good of their children after them.
Jeremiah 32:40  And I will put the fear of me in their hearts, that they may not turn from me.
Jeremiah 32:41  and I will plant them in this land in faithfulness, with all my heart and all my soul.
Jeremiah 32:42 “For thus says the LORD: Just as I have brought all this great disaster upon this people, so I will bring upon them all the good that I promise them.
Jeremiah 32:43  it is given into the hand of the Chaldeans.’
Jeremiah 32:44 Fields shall be bought for money, and I will restore their fortunes, declares the LORD.”
Jeremiah 33:1 The word of the LORD came to Jeremiah a second time, while he was still shut up in the court of the guard:
Jeremiah 33:2 “Thus says the LORD is his name:
Jeremiah 33:3  and will tell you great and hidden things that you have not known.
Jeremiah 33:4 For thus says the LORD, the God of Israel, concerning the houses of this city and the houses of the kings of Judah that were torn down to make a defense against the siege mounds and against the sword:
Jeremiah 33:5 They are coming in for I have hidden my face from this city because of all their evil.
Jeremiah 33:6  Behold, I will bring to it health and healing, and I will heal them and reveal to them abundance of prosperity and security.
Jeremiah 33:7  at first.
Jeremiah 33:8  and I will forgive all the guilt of their sin and rebellion against me.
Jeremiah 33:9  fear and tremble because of all the good and all the prosperity I provide for it.
Jeremiah 33:10 “Thus says the LORD: In this place of which you say, ‘It is a waste without man or beast,’ in the cities of Judah and the streets of Jerusalem that are desolate, without man or inhabitant or beast, there shall be heard again
Jeremiah 33:11 For I will restore the fortunes of the land as at first, says the LORD.
Jeremiah 33:12 “Thus says the LORD of hosts: resting their flocks.
Jeremiah 33:13  of the one who counts them, says the LORD.
Jeremiah 33:14  I will fulfill the promise I made to the house of Israel and the house of Judah.
Jeremiah 33:15 In those days and at that time I will cause a righteous Branch to spring up for David, and he shall execute justice and righteousness in the land.
Jeremiah 33:16 In those days Judah will be saved, ‘The LORD is our righteousness.’
Jeremiah 33:17 “For thus says the LORD: David shall never lack a man to sit on the throne of the house of Israel,
Jeremiah 33:18  and the Levitical priests shall never lack a man in my presence to offer burnt offerings, to burn grain offerings, and to make sacrifices forever.”
Jeremiah 33:19 The word of the LORD came to Jeremiah:
Jeremiah 33:20  so that day and night will not come at their appointed time,
Jeremiah 33:21  then also my covenant with David my servant may be broken, so that he shall not have a son to reign on his throne, and my covenant with the Levitical priests my ministers.
Jeremiah 33:22 As the sands of the sea cannot be measured, so I will multiply the offspring of David my servant, and the Levitical priests who minister to me.”
Jeremiah 33:23 The word of the LORD came to Jeremiah:
Jeremiah 33:24 “Have you not observed that these people are saying, ‘The LORD has rejected the two clans that he chose’? Thus they have despised my people so that they are no longer a nation in their sight.
Jeremiah 33:25 Thus says the LORD: If I have not established my covenant with day and night and the fixed order of heaven and earth,
Jeremiah 33:26 then I will reject the offspring of Jacob and David my servant and will not choose one of his offspring to rule over the offspring of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. For I will restore their fortunes and will have mercy on them.”
Jeremiah 34:1 The word that came to Jeremiah from the LORD, when and all the kingdoms of the earth under his dominion and all the peoples were fighting against Jerusalem and all of its cities:
Jeremiah 34:2 “Thus says the LORD, the God of Israel: Go and speak to Behold, I am giving this city into the hand of the king of Babylon, and he shall burn it with fire.
Jeremiah 34:3  You shall see the king of Babylon eye to eye and speak with him face to face. And you shall go to Babylon.’
Jeremiah 34:4 Yet hear the word of the LORD, O Zedekiah king of Judah! ‘You shall not die by the sword.
Jeremiah 34:5 You shall die in peace. and lament for you, saying, “Alas, lord!”’ For I have spoken the word, declares the LORD.”
Jeremiah 34:6 Then Jeremiah the prophet spoke all these words to Zedekiah king of Judah, in Jerusalem,
Jeremiah 34:7 when the army of the king of Babylon was fighting against Jerusalem and against all the cities of Judah that were left, fortified cities of Judah that remained.
Jeremiah 34:8 The word that came to Jeremiah from the LORD, after King Zedekiah to make a proclamation of liberty to them,
Jeremiah 34:9  so that no one should enslave a Jew, his brother.
Jeremiah 34:10 And they obeyed, all the officials and all the people who had entered into the covenant that everyone would set free his slave, male or female, so that they would not be enslaved again. They obeyed and set them free.
Jeremiah 34:11 But afterward they turned around and took back the male and female slaves they had set free, and brought them into subjection as slaves.
Jeremiah 34:12 The word of the LORD came to Jeremiah from the LORD:
Jeremiah 34:13 “Thus says the LORD, the God of Israel: I myself made a covenant with your fathers when I brought them out of the land of Egypt, out of the house of slavery, saying,
Jeremiah 34:14  your fathers did not listen to me or incline their ears to me.
Jeremiah 34:15 You recently repented and did what was right in my eyes house that is called by my name,
Jeremiah 34:16 but then you turned around whom you had set free according to their desire, and you brought them into subjection to be your slaves.
Jeremiah 34:17 “Therefore, thus says the LORD: You have not obeyed me I will make you a horror to all the kingdoms of the earth.
Jeremiah 34:18 And the men who transgressed my covenant and did not keep the terms of the calf that they cut in two and passed between its parts —
Jeremiah 34:19 the officials of Judah, the officials of Jerusalem, the eunuchs, the priests, and all the people of the land who passed between the parts of the calf.
Jeremiah 34:20 And I will give them into the hand of their enemies Their dead bodies shall be food for the birds of the air and the beasts of the earth.
Jeremiah 34:21 And which has withdrawn from you.
Jeremiah 34:22 Behold, without inhabitant.”
Jeremiah 35:1 The word that came to Jeremiah from the LORD in the days of Jehoiakim the son of Josiah, king of Judah:
Jeremiah 35:2 “Go to the house of the the chambers; then offer them wine to drink.”
Jeremiah 35:3 So I took Jaazaniah the son of Jeremiah, son of Habazziniah and his brothers and all his sons and the whole house of the Rechabites.
Jeremiah 35:4 I brought them to the house of the LORD into keeper of the threshold.
Jeremiah 35:5 Then I set before the Rechabites pitchers full of wine, and cups, and I said to them, “Drink wine.”
Jeremiah 35:6 But they answered, “We will drink no wine, for Jonadab the son of Rechab, our father, commanded us, ‘You shall not drink wine, neither you nor your sons forever.
Jeremiah 35:7 You shall not build a house; you shall not sow seed; you shall not plant or have a vineyard; but you shall live in tents all your days, that you may live many days in the land where you sojourn.’
Jeremiah 35:8 We have obeyed the voice of Jonadab the son of Rechab, our father, in all that he commanded us, to drink no wine all our days, ourselves, our wives, our sons, or our daughters,
Jeremiah 35:9 and not to build houses to dwell in. We have no vineyard or field or seed,
Jeremiah 35:10 but we have lived in tents and have obeyed and done all that Jonadab our father commanded us.
Jeremiah 35:11 But So we are living in Jerusalem.”
Jeremiah 35:12 Then the word of the LORD came to Jeremiah:
Jeremiah 35:13 “Thus says the LORD of hosts, the God of Israel: Go and say to the people of Judah and the inhabitants of Jerusalem, Will you not receive instruction and listen to my words? declares the LORD.
Jeremiah 35:14 The command that Jonadab the son of Rechab gave to his sons, to drink no wine, has been kept, and they drink none to this day, for they have obeyed their father's command. I have spoken to you persistently, but you have not listened to me.
Jeremiah 35:15 I have sent to you all my servants the prophets, sending them But you did not incline your ear or listen to me.
Jeremiah 35:16 The sons of Jonadab the son of Rechab have kept the command that their father gave them, but this people has not obeyed me.
Jeremiah 35:17 Therefore, thus says the LORD, the God of hosts, the God of Israel: Behold, I am bringing upon Judah and all the inhabitants of Jerusalem all the disaster that I have pronounced against them, I have called to them and they have not answered.”
Jeremiah 35:18 But to the house of the Rechabites Jeremiah said, “Thus says the LORD of hosts, the God of Israel: Because you have obeyed the command of Jonadab your father and kept all his precepts and done all that he commanded you,
Jeremiah 35:19 therefore thus says the LORD of hosts, the God of Israel: Jonadab the son of Rechab shall never lack a man to stand before me.”
Jeremiah 36:1 In the fourth year of Jehoiakim the son of Josiah, king of Judah, this word came to Jeremiah from the LORD:
Jeremiah 36:2 “Take from the day I spoke to you, from the days of Josiah until today.
Jeremiah 36:3  that I may forgive their iniquity and their sin.”
Jeremiah 36:4 Then Jeremiah called a scroll at the dictation of Jeremiah all the words of the LORD that he had spoken to him.
Jeremiah 36:5 And Jeremiah ordered “I am banned from going to the house of the LORD,
Jeremiah 36:6 so you are to go, and on a day of fasting in the hearing of all the people in the LORD's house you shall read the words of the LORD from the scroll that you have written at my dictation. You shall read them also in the hearing of all the men of Judah who come out of their cities.
Jeremiah 36:7  and that every one will turn from his evil way, for great is the anger and wrath that the LORD has pronounced against this people.”
Jeremiah 36:8 And Baruch the son of Neriah did all that Jeremiah the prophet ordered him about reading from the scroll the words of the LORD in the LORD's house.
Jeremiah 36:9  proclaimed a fast before the LORD.
Jeremiah 36:10 Then, in the hearing of all the people, Baruch read the words of Jeremiah from the scroll, in the house of the LORD, in the chamber of Gemariah the son of Shaphan the secretary, which was in the upper court, at the entry of the New Gate of the LORD's house.
Jeremiah 36:11 When Micaiah the son of Gemariah, son of Shaphan, heard all the words of the LORD from the scroll,
Jeremiah 36:12 he went down to the king's house, into the secretary's chamber, and Shaphan, Zedekiah the son of Hananiah, and all the officials.
Jeremiah 36:13 And Micaiah told them all the words that he had heard, when Baruch read the scroll in the hearing of the people.
Jeremiah 36:14 Then all the officials sent Jehudi the son of Nethaniah, son of Shelemiah, son of Cushi, to say to Baruch, “Take in your hand the scroll that you read in the hearing of the people, and come.” So Baruch the son of Neriah took the scroll in his hand and came to them.
Jeremiah 36:15 And they said to him, “Sit down and read it.” So Baruch read it to them.
Jeremiah 36:16 When they heard all the words, they turned one to another in fear. And they said to Baruch, “We must report all these words to the king.”
Jeremiah 36:17 Then they asked Baruch, “Tell us, please, how did you write all these words? Was it at his dictation?”
Jeremiah 36:18 Baruch answered them, “He dictated all these words to me, while I wrote them with ink on the scroll.”
Jeremiah 36:19 Then the officials said to Baruch, “Go and hide, you and Jeremiah, and let no one know where you are.”
Jeremiah 36:20 So they went into the court to the king, having put the scroll in the chamber of Elishama the secretary, and they reported all the words to the king.
Jeremiah 36:21 Then the king sent Jehudi to get the scroll, and he took it from the chamber of Elishama the secretary. And Jehudi read it to the king and all the officials who stood beside the king.
Jeremiah 36:22 It was the winter house, and there was a fire burning in the fire pot before him.
Jeremiah 36:23 As Jehudi read three or four columns, the king would cut them off with a knife and throw them into the fire in the fire pot, until the entire scroll was consumed in the fire that was in the fire pot.
Jeremiah 36:24 Yet nor did they tear their garments.
Jeremiah 36:25 Even when urged the king not to burn the scroll, he would not listen to them.
Jeremiah 36:26 And the king commanded Jerahmeel the Baruch the secretary and Jeremiah the prophet, but the LORD hid them.
Jeremiah 36:27 Now after the king had burned the scroll with the words that Baruch wrote at Jeremiah's dictation, the word of the LORD came to Jeremiah:
Jeremiah 36:28 “Take another scroll and write on it all the former words that were in the first scroll, which Jehoiakim the king of Judah has burned.
Jeremiah 36:29 And concerning Jehoiakim king of Judah you shall say, ‘Thus says the LORD, You have burned this scroll, saying, “Why have you written in it that the king of Babylon will certainly come and destroy this land, and will cut off from it man and beast?”
Jeremiah 36:30 Therefore thus says the LORD concerning Jehoiakim king of Judah: and his dead body shall be cast out to the heat by day and the frost by night.
Jeremiah 36:31  And I will punish him and his offspring and his servants for their iniquity. I will bring upon them and upon the inhabitants of Jerusalem and upon the people of Judah all the disaster that I have pronounced against them, but they would not hear.’”
Jeremiah 36:32 Then Jeremiah took another scroll and gave it to wrote on it at the dictation of Jeremiah all the words of the scroll that Jehoiakim king of Judah had burned in the fire. And many similar words were added to them.
Jeremiah 37:1  Coniah the son of Jehoiakim.
Jeremiah 37:2  But neither he nor his servants nor the people of the land listened to the words of the LORD that he spoke through Jeremiah the prophet.
Jeremiah 37:3 King Zedekiah sent pray for us to the LORD our God.”
Jeremiah 37:4  for he had not yet been put in prison.
Jeremiah 37:5  they withdrew from Jerusalem.
Jeremiah 37:6 Then the word of the LORD came to Jeremiah the prophet:
Jeremiah 37:7 “Thus says the LORD, God of Israel: Thus shall you say to the king of Judah who return to Egypt, to its own land.
Jeremiah 37:8 And They shall capture it and burn it with fire.
Jeremiah 37:9 Thus says the LORD, Do not deceive yourselves, saying, “The Chaldeans will surely go away from us,” for they will not go away.
Jeremiah 37:10  burn this city with fire.’”
Jeremiah 37:11 Now when the Chaldean army had withdrawn from Jerusalem at the approach of Pharaoh's army,
Jeremiah 37:12 Jeremiah set out from Jerusalem to go to among the people.
Jeremiah 37:13 When he was at “You are deserting to the Chaldeans.”
Jeremiah 37:14 And Jeremiah said, “It is a lie; I am not deserting to the Chaldeans.” But Irijah would not listen to him, and seized Jeremiah and brought him to the officials.
Jeremiah 37:15 And the officials were enraged at Jeremiah, and they beat him and imprisoned him in the house of Jonathan the secretary, for it had been made a prison.
Jeremiah 37:16  When Jeremiah had come to the dungeon cells and remained there many days,
Jeremiah 37:17 King Zedekiah sent for him and received him. The king questioned him “You shall be delivered into the hand of the king of Babylon.”
Jeremiah 37:18 Jeremiah also said to King Zedekiah, “What wrong have I done to you or your servants or this people, that you have put me in prison?
Jeremiah 37:19  Where are your prophets who prophesied to you, saying, ‘The king of Babylon will not come against you and against this land’?
Jeremiah 37:20 Now hear, please, O my lord the king: do not send me back to the house of Jonathan the secretary, lest I die there.”
Jeremiah 37:21 So King Zedekiah gave orders, and they committed Jeremiah to the court of the guard.
Jeremiah 38:1 Now Shephatiah the son of Mattan, Gedaliah the son of Pashhur, Pashhur the son of Malchiah heard the words that Jeremiah was saying to all the people:
Jeremiah 38:2 “Thus says the LORD: but he who goes out to the Chaldeans shall live. He shall have his life as a prize of war, and live.
Jeremiah 38:3 Thus says the LORD: This city shall surely be given into the hand of the army of the king of Babylon and be taken.”
Jeremiah 38:4 Then the officials said to the king, the welfare of this people, but their harm.”
Jeremiah 38:5 King Zedekiah said, “Behold, he is in your hands, for the king can do nothing against you.”
Jeremiah 38:6 So they took Jeremiah Jeremiah sank in the mud.
Jeremiah 38:7 When in the Benjamin Gate —
Jeremiah 38:8  Ebed-melech went from the king's house and said to the king,
Jeremiah 38:9 “My lord the king, these men have done evil in all that they did to Jeremiah the prophet by casting him into the cistern, and he will die there of for there is no bread left in the city.”
Jeremiah 38:10 Then the king commanded Ebed-melech the Ethiopian, “Take thirty men with you from here, and lift Jeremiah the prophet out of the cistern before he dies.”
Jeremiah 38:11 So by ropes.
Jeremiah 38:12 Then the ropes.” Jeremiah did so.
Jeremiah 38:13 Then they drew Jeremiah up with court of the guard.
Jeremiah 38:14 King Zedekiah sent for Jeremiah the prophet and received him at the third entrance of the temple of the LORD. The king said to Jeremiah, “I will ask you a question; hide nothing from me.”
Jeremiah 38:15 Jeremiah said to Zedekiah, “If I tell you, will you not surely put me to death? And if I give you counsel, you will not listen to me.”
Jeremiah 38:16 Then King Zedekiah swore these men who seek your life.”
Jeremiah 38:17 Then Jeremiah said to Zedekiah, “Thus says the LORD, the God of hosts, the God of Israel: then your life shall be spared, and this city shall not be burned with fire, and you and your house shall live.
Jeremiah 38:18 But if you do not surrender to and they shall burn it with fire, and you shall not escape from their hand.”
Jeremiah 38:19 King Zedekiah said to Jeremiah, “I am afraid of the Judeans who have deserted to the Chaldeans, lest I be handed over to them and they deal cruelly with me.”
Jeremiah 38:20 Jeremiah said, “You shall not be given to them. Obey now the voice of the LORD in what I say to you, and it shall be well with you, and your life shall be spared.
Jeremiah 38:21 But if you refuse to surrender, this is the vision which the LORD has shown to me:
Jeremiah 38:22 Behold, all the women left in the house of the king of Judah were being led out to the officials of the king of Babylon and were saying, “‘Your trusted friends have deceived you and prevailed against you; now that your feet are sunk in the mud, they turn away from you.’
Jeremiah 38:23 All your wives and your sons shall be led out to the Chaldeans, and you yourself shall not escape from their hand, but shall be seized by the king of Babylon, and this city shall be burned with fire.”
Jeremiah 38:24 Then Zedekiah said to Jeremiah, “Let no one know of these words, and you shall not die.
Jeremiah 38:25 If the officials hear that I have spoken with you and come to you and say to you, ‘Tell us what you said to the king and what the king said to you; hide nothing from us and we will not put you to death,’
Jeremiah 38:26 then you shall say to them, ‘I made a humble plea to the king that he would not send me back to the house of Jonathan to die there.’”
Jeremiah 38:27 Then all the officials came to Jeremiah and asked him, and he answered them as the king had instructed him. So they stopped speaking with him, for the conversation had not been overheard.
Jeremiah 38:28 And Jeremiah remained in the court of the guard until the day that Jerusalem was taken.
Jeremiah 39:1  In the ninth year of Zedekiah king of Judah, in the tenth month, Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon and all his army came against Jerusalem and besieged it.
Jeremiah 39:2 In the eleventh year of Zedekiah, in the fourth month, on the ninth day of the month, a breach was made in the city.
Jeremiah 39:3 Then all the Rab-saris, Nergal-sar-ezer the Rab-mag, with all the rest of the officers of the king of Babylon.
Jeremiah 39:4 When Zedekiah king of Judah and all the soldiers saw them, they fled, going out of the city at night by way of the king's garden through the gate between the two walls; and they went toward the Arabah.
Jeremiah 39:5 But the army of the Chaldeans pursued them and overtook Zedekiah in and he passed sentence on him.
Jeremiah 39:6 The king of Babylon slaughtered all the nobles of Judah.
Jeremiah 39:7  He put out the eyes of Zedekiah and bound him in chains to take him to Babylon.
Jeremiah 39:8  and broke down the walls of Jerusalem.
Jeremiah 39:9 Then those who had deserted to him, and the people who remained.
Jeremiah 39:10 Nebuzaradan, the captain of the guard, left in the land of Judah some of the poor people who owned nothing, and gave them vineyards and fields at the same time.
Jeremiah 39:11 Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon gave command concerning Jeremiah through Nebuzaradan, the captain of the guard, saying,
Jeremiah 39:12  “Take him, look after him well, and do him no harm, but deal with him as he tells you.”
Jeremiah 39:13 So and all the chief officers of the king of Babylon
Jeremiah 39:14 sent and took Jeremiah from he lived among the people.
Jeremiah 39:15 The word of the LORD came to Jeremiah while he was shut up in the court of the guard:
Jeremiah 39:16 “Go, and say to not for good, and they shall be accomplished before you on that day.
Jeremiah 39:17 But I will deliver you on that day, declares the LORD, and you shall not be given into the hand of the men of whom you are afraid.
Jeremiah 39:18 For I will surely save you, and you shall not fall by the sword, but you shall have your because you have put your trust in me, declares the LORD.’”
Jeremiah 40:1 The word that came to Jeremiah from the LORD bound in chains along with all the captives of Jerusalem and Judah who were being exiled to Babylon.
Jeremiah 40:2 The captain of the guard took Jeremiah and said to him, “The LORD your God pronounced this disaster against this place.
Jeremiah 40:3 The LORD has brought it about, and has done as he said. Because you sinned against the LORD and did not obey his voice, this thing has come upon you.
Jeremiah 40:4 Now, behold, I release you today from See, the whole land is before you; go wherever you think it good and right to go.
Jeremiah 40:5 If you remain, whom the king of Babylon appointed governor of the cities of Judah, and dwell with him among the people. Or go wherever you think it right to go.” So the captain of the guard gave him an allowance of food and a present, and let him go.
Jeremiah 40:6 Then Jeremiah went to who were left in the land.
Jeremiah 40:7  the poorest of the land who had not been taken into exile to Babylon,
Jeremiah 40:8 they went to Gedaliah at Jezaniah the son of the Maacathite, they and their men.
Jeremiah 40:9 Gedaliah the son of Ahikam, son of Shaphan, swore to them and their men, saying, “Do not be afraid to serve the Chaldeans. Dwell in the land and serve the king of Babylon, and it shall be well with you.
Jeremiah 40:10 As for me, I will dwell at gather wine and summer fruits and oil, and store them in your vessels, and dwell in your cities that you have taken.”
Jeremiah 40:11 Likewise, when all the Judeans who were in Edom and in other lands heard that the king of Babylon had left a remnant in Judah and had appointed Gedaliah the son of Ahikam, son of Shaphan, as governor over them,
Jeremiah 40:12  gathered wine and summer fruits in great abundance.
Jeremiah 40:13 Now all the leaders of the forces in the open country came to Gedaliah at Mizpah
Jeremiah 40:14 and said to him, “Do you know that Baalis the king of the Ammonites has sent Ishmael the son of Nethaniah to take your life?” But Gedaliah the son of Ahikam would not believe them.
Jeremiah 40:15 Then Johanan the son of Kareah spoke secretly to Gedaliah at Mizpah, “Please let me go and strike down Ishmael the son of Nethaniah, and no one will know it. Why should he take your life, so that all the Judeans who are gathered about you would be scattered, and the remnant of Judah would perish?”
Jeremiah 40:16 But Gedaliah the son of Ahikam said to Johanan the son of Kareah, “You shall not do this thing, for you are speaking falsely of Ishmael.”
Jeremiah 41:1  ate bread together there at Mizpah,
Jeremiah 41:2  whom the king of Babylon had appointed governor in the land.
Jeremiah 41:3 Ishmael also struck down all the Judeans who were with Gedaliah at Mizpah, and the Chaldean soldiers who happened to be there.
Jeremiah 41:4 On the day after the murder of Gedaliah, before anyone knew of it,
Jeremiah 41:5 eighty men arrived from bringing grain offerings and incense to present at the temple of the LORD.
Jeremiah 41:6 And Ishmael the son of Nethaniah came out from Mizpah to meet them, weeping as he came. As he met them, he said to them, “Come in to Gedaliah the son of Ahikam.”
Jeremiah 41:7 When they came into the city, Ishmael the son of Nethaniah and the men with him slaughtered them and cast them into a cistern.
Jeremiah 41:8 But there were ten men among them who said to Ishmael, “Do not put us to death, for we have stores of wheat, barley, oil, and honey hidden in the fields.” So he refrained and did not put them to death with their companions.
Jeremiah 41:9 Now the cistern into which Ishmael had thrown all the bodies of the men whom he had struck down along with Baasha king of Israel; Ishmael the son of Nethaniah filled it with the slain.
Jeremiah 41:10 Then Ishmael took captive all the rest of the people who were in Mizpah, the Ammonites.
Jeremiah 41:11 But when all the leaders of the forces with him heard of all the evil that Ishmael the son of Nethaniah had done,
Jeremiah 41:12 they took all their men and went to fight against Ishmael the son of Nethaniah. They came upon him at Gibeon.
Jeremiah 41:13 And when all the people who were with Ishmael saw Johanan the son of Kareah and all the leaders of the forces with him, they rejoiced.
Jeremiah 41:14  So all the people whom Ishmael had carried away captive from Mizpah turned around and came back, and went to Johanan the son of Kareah.
Jeremiah 41:15 But Ishmael the son of Nethaniah escaped from Johanan with eight men, and went to the Ammonites.
Jeremiah 41:16 Then Johanan the son of Kareah and Gibeon.
Jeremiah 41:17 And they went and stayed at Geruth Bethlehem, intending to go to Egypt
Jeremiah 41:18 because of the Chaldeans. For they were afraid of them, because Ishmael the son of Nethaniah had struck down Gedaliah the son of Ahikam, whom the king of Babylon had made governor over the land.
Jeremiah 42:1 Then from the least to the greatest, came near
Jeremiah 42:2 and said to Jeremiah the prophet, “Let because we are left with but a few, as your eyes see us —
Jeremiah 42:3 that the LORD your God may show us the way we should go, and the thing that we should do.”
Jeremiah 42:4 Jeremiah the prophet said to them, “I have heard you. Behold, I will pray to the LORD your God according to your request, and I will keep nothing back from you.”
Jeremiah 42:5 Then they said to Jeremiah, with which the LORD your God sends you to us.
Jeremiah 42:6 Whether it is good or bad, we will obey the voice of the LORD our God to whom we are sending you, that it may be well with us when we obey the voice of the LORD our God.”
Jeremiah 42:7  At the end of ten days the word of the LORD came to Jeremiah.
Jeremiah 42:8 Then he summoned from the least to the greatest,
Jeremiah 42:9 and said to them, “Thus says the LORD, the God of Israel, to whom you sent me to present your plea for mercy before him:
Jeremiah 42:10 If you will remain in this land, for I relent of the disaster that I did to you.
Jeremiah 42:11  for I am with you, to save you and to deliver you from his hand.
Jeremiah 42:12  I will grant you mercy, that he may have mercy on you and let you remain in your own land.
Jeremiah 42:13  But if you say, ‘We will not remain in this land,’ disobeying the voice of the LORD your God
Jeremiah 42:14 and saying, ‘No, be hungry for bread, and we will dwell there,’
Jeremiah 42:15 then hear the word of the LORD, O remnant of Judah. Thus says the LORD of hosts, the God of Israel: and go to live there,
Jeremiah 42:16 then the sword and there you shall die.
Jeremiah 42:17 All the men who set their faces to go to Egypt to live there shall die by the sword, by famine, and by pestilence. They shall have no remnant or survivor from the disaster that I will bring upon them.
Jeremiah 42:18 “For thus says the LORD of hosts, the God of Israel: You shall become an execration, a horror, a curse, and a taunt. You shall see this place no more.
Jeremiah 42:19 The LORD has said to you, O remnant of Judah, Know for a certainty that I have warned you this day
Jeremiah 42:20 that you have gone astray at the cost of your lives. whatever the LORD our God says, declare to us and we will do it.’
Jeremiah 42:21 And I have this day declared it to you, but you have not obeyed the voice of the LORD your God in anything that he sent me to tell you.
Jeremiah 42:22  Now therefore know for a certainty that you shall die by the sword, by famine, and by pestilence in the place where you desire to go to live.”
Jeremiah 43:1 When Jeremiah finished speaking to all the people all these words of the LORD their God, with which the LORD their God had sent him to them,
Jeremiah 43:2 Azariah the son of ‘Do not go to Egypt to live there,’
Jeremiah 43:3 but to deliver us into the hand of the Chaldeans, that they may kill us or take us into exile in Babylon.”
Jeremiah 43:4 So the commanders of the forces and all the people did not obey the voice of the LORD, to remain in the land of Judah.
Jeremiah 43:5 But Johanan the son of Kareah and all the commanders of the forces took all the remnant of Judah who had returned to live in the land of Judah from all the nations to which they had been driven —
Jeremiah 43:6  Gedaliah the son of Ahikam, son of Shaphan; also Jeremiah the prophet and Baruch the son of Neriah.
Jeremiah 43:7 And they came into the land of Egypt, for they did not obey the voice of the LORD. And they arrived at Tahpanhes.
Jeremiah 43:8 Then the word of the LORD came to Jeremiah in Tahpanhes:
Jeremiah 43:9 “Take in your hands large stones and hide them in the mortar in the pavement that is at the entrance to Pharaoh's palace in Tahpanhes, in the sight of the men of Judah,
Jeremiah 43:10 and say to them, ‘Thus says the LORD of hosts, the God of Israel: Behold, I will send and take Nebuchadnezzar the king of Babylon, and I will set his throne above these stones that I have hidden, and he will spread his royal canopy over them.
Jeremiah 43:11 He shall come giving over to the pestilence those who are doomed to the pestilence, to captivity those who are doomed to captivity, and to the sword those who are doomed to the sword.
Jeremiah 43:12  as a shepherd cleans his cloak of vermin, and he shall go away from there in peace.
Jeremiah 43:13 He shall break the and the temples of the gods of Egypt he shall burn with fire.’”
Jeremiah 44:1 The word that came to Jeremiah concerning all the Judeans who lived in the land of Egypt, at Pathros,
Jeremiah 44:2 “Thus says the LORD of hosts, the God of Israel: You have seen all the disaster that I brought upon Jerusalem and upon all the cities of Judah. Behold, this day they are a desolation, and no one dwells in them,
Jeremiah 44:3 because of the evil that they committed, and serve other gods that they knew not, neither they, nor you, nor your fathers.
Jeremiah 44:4  Yet I persistently sent to you all my servants the prophets, saying, ‘Oh, do not do this abomination that I hate!’
Jeremiah 44:5  or incline their ear, to turn from their evil and make no offerings to other gods.
Jeremiah 44:6  and they became a waste and a desolation, as at this day.
Jeremiah 44:7 And now thus says the LORD God of hosts, the God of Israel: Why do you commit this great evil infant and child, from the midst of Judah, leaving you no remnant?
Jeremiah 44:8  a curse and a taunt among all the nations of the earth?
Jeremiah 44:9 Have you forgotten the evil of your fathers, and the evil of your wives, which they committed in the land of Judah and in the streets of Jerusalem?
Jeremiah 44:10 They have not humbled themselves even to this day, nor have they feared, nor walked in my law and my statutes that I set before you and before your fathers.
Jeremiah 44:11 “Therefore thus says the LORD of hosts, the God of Israel: Behold, I will set my face against you for harm, to cut off all Judah.
Jeremiah 44:12 I will take the remnant of Judah who have a curse, and a taunt.
Jeremiah 44:13  I will punish those who dwell in the land of Egypt, as I have punished Jerusalem, with the sword, with famine, and with pestilence,
Jeremiah 44:14  except some fugitives.”
Jeremiah 44:15 Then all the men who knew that Pathros in the land of Egypt, answered Jeremiah:
Jeremiah 44:16 “As for the word that you have spoken to us in the name of the LORD, we will not listen to you.
Jeremiah 44:17  as we did, both we and our fathers, our kings and our officials, in the cities of Judah and in the streets of Jerusalem. For then we had plenty of food, and prospered, and saw no disaster.
Jeremiah 44:18 But since we left off making offerings to and have been consumed by the sword and by famine.”
Jeremiah 44:19 And the women said, without our husbands' approval that we made cakes for her bearing her image and poured out drink offerings to her?”
Jeremiah 44:20 Then Jeremiah said to all the people, men and women, all the people who had given him this answer:
Jeremiah 44:21  did not the LORD remember them? Did it not come into his mind?
Jeremiah 44:22  without inhabitant, as it is this day.
Jeremiah 44:23 It is because you made offerings that this disaster has happened to you, as at this day.”
Jeremiah 44:24 Jeremiah said to all the people and all the women, “Hear the word of the LORD, all you of Judah who are in the land of Egypt.
Jeremiah 44:25 Thus says the LORD of hosts, the God of Israel: to make offerings to the queen of heaven and to pour out drink offerings to her.’ Then confirm your vows and perform your vows!
Jeremiah 44:26 Therefore hear the word of the LORD, saying, ‘As the Lord GOD lives.’
Jeremiah 44:27  All the men of Judah who are in the land of Egypt shall be consumed by the sword and by famine, until there is an end of them.
Jeremiah 44:28  shall know whose word will stand, mine or theirs.
Jeremiah 44:29 This shall be the sign to you, declares the LORD, that I will punish you in this place, in order that you may know that my words will surely stand against you for harm:
Jeremiah 44:30 Thus says the LORD, Behold, I will give Zedekiah king of Judah into the hand of Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon, who was his enemy and sought his life.”
Jeremiah 45:1 The word that Jeremiah the prophet spoke to in the fourth year of Jehoiakim the son of Josiah, king of Judah:
Jeremiah 45:2 “Thus says the LORD, the God of Israel, to you, O Baruch:
Jeremiah 45:3 You said, and I find no rest.’
Jeremiah 45:4 Thus shall you say to him, Thus says the LORD: Behold, what I have built I am breaking down, and what I have planted I am plucking up — that is, the whole land.
Jeremiah 45:5 And your life as a prize of war in all places to which you may go.”
Jeremiah 46:1 The word of the LORD that came to Jeremiah the prophet concerning the nations.
Jeremiah 46:2 About Egypt. the fourth year of Jehoiakim the son of Josiah, king of Judah:
Jeremiah 46:3  “Prepare buckler and shield, and advance for battle!
Jeremiah 46:4 polish your spears, put on your armor!
Jeremiah 46:5 Why have I seen it? They are dismayed and have turned backward. Theirterror on every side! declares the LORD.
Jeremiah 46:6 “The swift cannot flee away, nor the warrior escape; they have stumbled and fallen.
Jeremiah 46:7 “Who is this, whose waters surge?
Jeremiah 46:8 Egypt rises like the Nile, like rivers whose waters surge. He said, ‘I will rise, I will cover the earth, I will destroy cities and their inhabitants.’
Jeremiah 46:9 men of Lud, skilled in handling the bow.
Jeremiah 46:10  by the river Euphrates.
Jeremiah 46:11 there is no healing for you.
Jeremiah 46:12 The nations have heard of your shame, and the earth is full of your cry; for warrior has stumbled against warrior; they have both fallen together.”
Jeremiah 46:13 The word that the LORD spoke to Jeremiah the prophet about the coming of Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon to strike the land of Egypt:
Jeremiah 46:14 “Declare in Egypt, and proclaim in the sword shall devour around you.’
Jeremiah 46:15 Why are your mighty ones face down? They do not stand  because the LORD thrust them down.
Jeremiah 46:16 He made many stumble,because of the sword of the oppressor.’
Jeremiah 46:17 Call the name of Pharaoh, king of Egypt, ‘Noisy one who lets the hour go by.’
Jeremiah 46:18  Carmel by the sea, shall one come.
Jeremiah 46:19  without inhabitant.
Jeremiah 46:20 “A beautiful from the north has come upon her.
Jeremiah 46:21 Even her hired soldiers in her midst are likethe time of their punishment.
Jeremiah 46:22 “She makeslike those who fell trees.
Jeremiah 46:23  they are more numerous than locusts; they are without number.
Jeremiah 46:24 The daughter of Egypt shall be put to shame; she shall be delivered into the hand of a people from the north.”
Jeremiah 46:25 The LORD of hosts, the God of Israel, said: “Behold, I am bringing punishment upon and her gods and her kings, upon Pharaoh and those who trust in him.
Jeremiah 46:26  as in the days of old, declares the LORD.
Jeremiah 46:27  “But fear not, O Jacob my servant, nor be dismayed, O Israel, for behold, I will save you from far away, and your offspring from the land of their captivity. Jacob shall return and have quiet and ease, and none shall make him afraid.
Jeremiah 46:28 I will discipline you in just measure, and I will by no means leave you unpunished.”
Jeremiah 47:1 The word of the LORD that came to Jeremiah the prophet Gaza.
Jeremiah 47:2 “Thus says the LORD:  the land and all that fills it, the city and those who dwell in it. Men shall cry out, and every inhabitant of the land shall wail.
Jeremiah 47:3 At the noise of the stamping of the hoofs of his stallions,  look not back to their children, so feeble are their hands,
Jeremiah 47:4 because of the day that is coming to destroy all Caphtor.
Jeremiah 47:5 how long will you gash yourselves?
Jeremiah 47:6  Ah, sword of the LORD! How long till you are quiet? Put yourself into your scabbard; rest and be still!
Jeremiah 47:7 How can ithe has appointed it.”
Jeremiah 48:1  and broken down;
Jeremiah 48:2 the renown of Moab is no more. In Madmen, shall be brought to silence; the sword shall pursue you.
Jeremiah 48:3 “A voice! A cry from Horonaim, ‘Desolation and great destruction!’
Jeremiah 48:4 Moab is destroyed; her little ones have made a cry.
Jeremiah 48:5   of destruction.
Jeremiah 48:6 Flee! Save yourselves! You will be like a juniper in the desert!
Jeremiah 48:7 For, his priests and his officials.
Jeremiah 48:8  the plain shall be destroyed, as the LORD has spoken.
Jeremiah 48:9 “Give wings to Moab, for she would fly away; her cities shall become a desolation, with no inhabitant in them.
Jeremiah 48:10  the work of the LORD with slackness, and cursed is he who keeps back his sword from bloodshed.
Jeremiah 48:11 “Moab has been at ease from his youth and has settled on his dregs; he has not been emptied from vessel to vessel, nor has he gone into exile; so his taste remains in him, and his scent is not changed.
Jeremiah 48:12 “Therefore, behold, the days are coming, declares the LORD, when I shall send to him pourers who will pour him, and empty his vessels and break his  jars in pieces.
Jeremiah 48:13 Then Bethel, their confidence.
Jeremiah 48:14 “How do you say, ‘We are heroes and mighty men of war’?
Jeremiah 48:15 The destroyer of whose name is the LORD of hosts.
Jeremiah 48:16 The calamity of Moab is near at hand, and his affliction hastens swiftly.
Jeremiah 48:17  ‘How the mighty scepter is broken, the glorious staff.’
Jeremiah 48:18  Dibon! For the destroyer of Moab has come up against you; he has destroyed your strongholds.
Jeremiah 48:19  Aroer! Ask him who flees and her who escapes; say, ‘What has happened?’
Jeremiah 48:20 Moab is put to shame, for it is broken;  Moab is laid waste.
Jeremiah 48:21 “Judgment has come upon Jahzah, and Mephaath,
Jeremiah 48:22 and Nebo, and Beth-diblathaim,
Jeremiah 48:23 and Beth-meon,
Jeremiah 48:24 and Bozrah, and all the cities of the land of Moab, far and near.
Jeremiah 48:25  his arm is broken, declares the LORD.
Jeremiah 48:26  and he too shall be held in derision.
Jeremiah 48:27  you wagged your head?
Jeremiah 48:28  like the dove that nests in the sides of the mouth of a gorge.
Jeremiah 48:29  We have heard of the pride of Moab — he is very proud — of his loftiness, his pride, and his arrogance, and the haughtiness of his heart.
Jeremiah 48:30 I know his insolence, declares the LORD; his boasts are false, his deeds are false.
Jeremiah 48:31  Kir-hareseth I mourn.
Jeremiah 48:32 More than for Jazer; on your summer fruits and your grapes the destroyer has fallen.
Jeremiah 48:33  Gladness and joy have been taken away from the fruitful land of Moab; I have made the wine cease from the winepresses; no one treads them with shouts of joy; the shouting is not the shout of joy.
Jeremiah 48:34  Horonaim and Eglath-shelishiyah. For the waters of Nimrim also have become desolate.
Jeremiah 48:35 And I will bring to an end in Moab, declares the LORD, him who offers sacrifice in the high place and makes offerings to his god.
Jeremiah 48:36 Therefore my heart moans for Moab like a flute, and my heart moans like a flute for the men of Therefore the riches they gained have perished.
Jeremiah 48:37  around the waist is sackcloth.
Jeremiah 48:38 On all the housetops of Moab and in the squares there is nothing but lamentation, for I have broken Moab like a vessel for which no one cares, declares the LORD.
Jeremiah 48:39 How it is broken! How they wail! has become a derision and a horror to all that are around him.”
Jeremiah 48:40 For thus says the LORD: “Behold,and spread his wings against Moab;
Jeremiah 48:41  a woman in her birth pains;
Jeremiah 48:42 Moab shall be he magnified himself against the LORD.
Jeremiah 48:43  Terror, pit, and snare are before you, O inhabitant of Moab! declares the LORD.
Jeremiah 48:44 He who flees from the terror shall fall into the pit, and he who climbs out of the pit shall be caught in the snare. For I will bring these things upon Moab, the year of their punishment, declares the LORD.
Jeremiah 48:45 “In the shadow of Heshbon fugitives stop without strength, for fire came out from Heshbon, flame from the house of Sihon; it has destroyed the sons of tumult.
Jeremiah 48:46  Chemosh are undone, for your sons have been taken captive, and your daughters into captivity.
Jeremiah 48:47  Yet I will restore the fortunes of Moab in the latter days, declares the LORD.” Thus far is the judgment on Moab.
Jeremiah 49:1  dispossessed Gad, and his people settled in its cities?
Jeremiah 49:2 Therefore, behold, the days are coming, declares the LORD, when I will cause mound, and its villages shall be burned with fire; then Israel shall dispossess those who dispossessed him, says the LORD.
Jeremiah 49:3 “Wail, Owith his priests and his officials.
Jeremiah 49:4 Why do you boast of your valleys,who trusted in her treasures, saying, ‘Who will come against me?’
Jeremiah 49:5 Behold, I will bring terror upon you, declares the Lord GOD of hosts, from all who are around you, and you shall be driven out, every man straight before him, with none to gather the fugitives.
Jeremiah 49:6 “But afterward I will restore the fortunes of the Ammonites, declares the LORD.”
Jeremiah 49:7 ConcerningHas their wisdom vanished?
Jeremiah 49:8 the time when I punish him.
Jeremiah 49:9 If thieves came by night, would they not destroy only enough for themselves?
Jeremiah 49:10  he is no more.
Jeremiah 49:11 and let your widows trust in me.”
Jeremiah 49:12 For thus says the LORD: will you go unpunished? You shall not go unpunished, but you must drink.
Jeremiah 49:13  a horror, a taunt, a waste, and a curse, and all her cities shall be perpetual wastes.”
Jeremiah 49:14 “Gather yourselves together and come against her, and rise up for battle!
Jeremiah 49:15 For behold, I will make you small among the nations, despised among mankind.
Jeremiah 49:16 The horror you inspire has deceived you, and the pride of your heart, you who live in the clefts of the rock, make your nest as high as the eagle's, I will bring you down from there, declares the LORD.
Jeremiah 49:17  and will hiss because of all its disasters.
Jeremiah 49:18  no man shall sojourn in her.
Jeremiah 49:19  What shepherd can stand before me?
Jeremiah 49:20 Therefore hear the plan that the LORD has made against Even the little ones of the flock shall be dragged away. Surely their fold shall be appalled at their fate.
Jeremiah 49:21 At the sound of their fall the earth shall tremble; the sound of their cry shall be heard at the Red Sea.
Jeremiah 49:22 Behold, of a woman in her birth pains.”
Jeremiah 49:23 Concerningthey are troubled like the sea that cannot be quiet.
Jeremiah 49:24  of a woman in labor.
Jeremiah 49:25 How is the famous city not forsaken, the city of my joy?
Jeremiah 49:26  Therefore her young men shall fall in her squares, and all her soldiers shall be destroyed in that day, declares the LORD of hosts.
Jeremiah 49:27 And Ben-hadad.”
Jeremiah 49:28 Concerning the people of the east!
Jeremiah 49:29  ‘Terror on every side!’
Jeremiah 49:30  Flee, wander far away, dwell in the depths, O inhabitants of Hazor! declares the LORD. For Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon has made a plan against you and formed a purpose against you.
Jeremiah 49:31 that has no gates or bars, that dwells alone.
Jeremiah 49:32 those who cut the corners of their hair, and I will bring their calamity from every side of them, declares the LORD.
Jeremiah 49:33 Hazor shall becomeno man shall sojourn in her.”
Jeremiah 49:34 The word of the LORD that came to Jeremiah the prophet concerning Zedekiah king of Judah.
Jeremiah 49:35 Thus says the LORD of hosts: “Behold, I will break Elam, the mainstay of their might.
Jeremiah 49:36 And I will bring upon Elam shall not come.
Jeremiah 49:37 I will I will send the sword after them, until I have consumed them,
Jeremiah 49:38 and I will set my throne in Elam and destroy their king and officials, declares the LORD.
Jeremiah 49:39 “But in the latter days Elam, declares the LORD.”
Jeremiah 50:1 The word that the LORD spoke concerning by Jeremiah the prophet:
Jeremiah 50:2 “Declare among the nations and proclaim, set up a banner and proclaim, conceal it not, and say: Her images are put to shame, her idols are dismayed.’
Jeremiah 50:3 “For both man and beast shall flee away.
Jeremiah 50:4  shall seek the LORD their God.
Jeremiah 50:5  everlasting covenant that will never be forgotten.’
Jeremiah 50:6  Their shepherds have led them astray, turning them away on the mountains. From mountain to hill they have gone. They have forgotten their fold.
Jeremiah 50:7 All who found them have devoured them, the hope of their fathers.’
Jeremiah 50:8  and go out of the land of the Chaldeans, and be as male goats before the flock.
Jeremiah 50:9 For behold, I am stirring up and bringing against Babylon a gathering of great nations, from the north country. And they shall array themselves against her. From there she shall be taken. Their arrows are like a skilled warrior who does not return empty-handed.
Jeremiah 50:10  Chaldea shall be plundered; all who plunder her shall be sated, declares the LORD.
Jeremiah 50:11  “Though you rejoice, though you exult, O plunderers of my heritage, though you frolic like a heifer in the pasture, and neigh like stallions,
Jeremiah 50:12 your mother shall be utterly shamed, and she who bore you shall be disgraced. Behold, she shall be the last of the nations, a wilderness, a dry land, and a desert.
Jeremiah 50:13 and hiss because of all her wounds.
Jeremiah 50:14 for she has sinned against the LORD.
Jeremiah 50:15 do to her as she has done.
Jeremiah 50:16 Cut off from Babylon the sower, and the one who handles the sickle in time of harvest; every one shall turn to his own people, and every one shall flee to his own land.
Jeremiah 50:17  has gnawed his bones.
Jeremiah 50:18 Therefore, thus says the LORD of hosts, the God of Israel: Behold, as I punished the king of Assyria.
Jeremiah 50:19  Gilead.
Jeremiah 50:20 In those days and in that time, declares the LORD, I will pardon those whom I leave as a remnant.
Jeremiah 50:21 “Go up against the land of Merathaim,  declares the LORD, and do all that I have commanded you.
Jeremiah 50:22  The noise of battle is in the land, and great destruction!
Jeremiah 50:23  has become a horror among the nations!
Jeremiah 50:24  you did not know it; you were found and caught, because you opposed the LORD.
Jeremiah 50:25 The LORD has opened his armory and brought out the weapons of his wrath, for the Lord GOD of hosts has a work to do in the land of the Chaldeans.
Jeremiah 50:26 Come against her from every quarter; open her granaries; pile her up like heaps of grain, and devote her to destruction; let nothing be left of her.
Jeremiah 50:27 Kill allthe time of their punishment.
Jeremiah 50:28 “A voice! They his temple.
Jeremiah 50:29  proudly defied the LORD, the Holy One of Israel.
Jeremiah 50:30  Therefore her young men shall fall in her squares, and all her soldiers shall be destroyed on that day, declares the LORD.
Jeremiah 50:31 “Behold, I am against you, Ofor your day has come, the time when I will punish you.
Jeremiah 50:32 and I will kindle a fire in his cities, and it will devour all that is around him.
Jeremiah 50:33 “Thus says the LORD of hosts: they refuse to let them go.
Jeremiah 50:34  He will surely plead their cause, that he may give rest to the earth, but unrest to the inhabitants of Babylon.
Jeremiah 50:35 “A sword against the Chaldeans, declares the LORD, and against the inhabitants of Babylon, and against wise men!
Jeremiah 50:36 A sword against the diviners, that they may become fools! A sword against her warriors, that they may be destroyed!
Jeremiah 50:37 A sword against her horses and against her chariots, and against allA sword against all her treasures, that they may be plundered!
Jeremiah 50:38 For it is a land of images, and they are mad over idols.
Jeremiah 50:39   and ostriches shall dwell in her. She shall never again have people, nor be inhabited for all generations.
Jeremiah 50:40  so no man shall dwell there, and no son of man shall sojourn in her.
Jeremiah 50:41  “Behold, a people comes from the north; a mighty nation and many kings are stirring from the farthest parts of the earth.
Jeremiah 50:42 They lay hold of bow and spear; they are cruel and have no mercy. The sound of them is like the roaring of the sea; they ride on horses, arrayed as a man for battle against you, O daughter of Babylon!
Jeremiah 50:43 “The king of Babylon heard the report of them, and his hands fell helpless; anguish seized him, pain as of a woman in labor.
Jeremiah 50:44  can stand before me?
Jeremiah 50:45 Therefore hear Surely the little ones of their flock shall be dragged away; surely their fold shall be appalled at their fate.
Jeremiah 50:46  At the sound of the capture of Babylon the earth shall tremble, and her cry shall be heard among the nations.”
Jeremiah 51:1 Thus says the LORD: “Behold, I will stir up
Jeremiah 51:2 and I will send to Babylon winnowers, andon the day of trouble.
Jeremiah 51:3   all her army.
Jeremiah 51:4 They shall fall down slain in the land of the Chaldeans, and wounded in her streets.
Jeremiah 51:5   is full of guilt against the Holy One of Israel.
Jeremiah 51:6 for this is the time of the LORD's vengeance, the repayment he is rendering her.
Jeremiah 51:7 Babylon wasthe nations drank of her wine; therefore the nations went mad.
Jeremiah 51:8 Take balm for her pain; perhaps she may be healed.
Jeremiah 51:9 We would have healed Babylon, but she was not healed.  her judgment has reached up to heaven and has been lifted up even to the skies.
Jeremiah 51:10 come, let us declare in Zion the work of the LORD our God.
Jeremiah 51:11  his temple.
Jeremiah 51:12 for the LORD has both planned and done what he spoke concerning the inhabitants of Babylon.
Jeremiah 51:13  O you who dwell by many waters, rich in treasures, your end has come; the thread of your life is cut.
Jeremiah 51:14 and they shall raise the shout of victory over you.
Jeremiah 51:15  “It is he who made the earth by his power, who established the world by his wisdom, and by his understanding stretched out the heavens.
Jeremiah 51:16 When he utters his voice there is a tumult of waters in the heavens, and he makes the mist rise from the ends of the earth. He makes lightning for the rain, and he brings forth the wind from his storehouses.
Jeremiah 51:17 Every man is stupid and without knowledge; every goldsmith is put to shame by his idols, for his images are false, and there is no breath in them.
Jeremiah 51:18 They are worthless, a work of delusion; at the time of their punishment they shall perish.
Jeremiah 51:19 Not like these is he who is the portion of Jacob, for he is the one who formed all things, and Israel is the tribe of his inheritance; the LORD of hosts is his name.
Jeremiah 51:20 “You are my hammer and weapon of war: with you I break nations in pieces; with you I destroy kingdoms;
Jeremiah 51:21 with you I break in pieces the horse and his rider; with you I break in pieces the chariot and the charioteer;
Jeremiah 51:22 with you I break in pieces man and woman; with you I break in pieces the young man and the young woman;
Jeremiah 51:23 with you I break in pieces the shepherd and his flock; with you I break in pieces the farmer and his team; with you I break in pieces governors and commanders.
Jeremiah 51:24  “I will repay Babylon and all the inhabitants of Chaldea before your very eyes for all the evil that they have done in Zion, declares the LORD.
Jeremiah 51:25 “Behold, I am against you, O destroying mountain, declares the LORD, which destroys the whole earth; I will stretch out my hand against you, and roll you down from the crags, and make you a burnt mountain.
Jeremiah 51:26 No a perpetual waste, declares the LORD.
Jeremiah 51:27 bring up horses like bristling locusts.
Jeremiah 51:28  land under their dominion.
Jeremiah 51:29 for the LORD's purposes against Babylon stand, to make the land of Babylon a desolation, without inhabitant.
Jeremiah 51:30 The warriors of Babylon have ceased fighting; they remain in their strongholds; their strength has failed; her bars are broken.
Jeremiah 51:31 One runner runs to meet another, and one messenger to meet another, to tell the king of Babylon that his city is taken on every side;
Jeremiah 51:32 the fords have been seized, the marshes are burned with fire, and the soldiers are in panic.
Jeremiah 51:33 For thus says the LORD of hosts, the God of Israel:  the time of her harvest will come.”
Jeremiah 51:34 “Nebuchadnezzar the king of Babylon
Jeremiah 51:35 The violence done to me and to my kinsmen be upon Babylon,” let the inhabitant of Zion say. “My blood be upon the inhabitants of Chaldea,” let Jerusalem say.
Jeremiah 51:36 Therefore thus says the LORD: “Behold, make her fountain dry,
Jeremiah 51:37 and Babylon shall become and a hissing, without inhabitant.
Jeremiah 51:38  like lions; they shall growl like lions' cubs.
Jeremiah 51:39 then sleep a perpetual sleep and not wake, declares the LORD.
Jeremiah 51:40 I will bring them down like lambs to the slaughter, like rams and male goats.
Jeremiah 51:41 “How seized! How Babylon has become a horror among the nations!
Jeremiah 51:42  The sea has come up on Babylon; she is covered with its tumultuous waves.
Jeremiah 51:43 Her cities have become a horror, a land in which no one dwells, and through which no son of man passes.
Jeremiah 51:44 And I will punishthe wall of Babylon has fallen.
Jeremiah 51:45 “Go out of the midst of her, the fierce anger of the LORD!
Jeremiah 51:46 Let not your heart faint, and be not fearful and ruler is against ruler.
Jeremiah 51:47 “Therefore, behold, the days are coming whenher whole land shall be put to shame, and all her slain shall fall in the midst of her.
Jeremiah 51:48 for the destroyers shall come against them out of the north, declares the LORD.
Jeremiah 51:49 Babylon must fall for the slain of Israel, just as for Babylon have fallen the slain of all the earth.
Jeremiah 51:50  “You who have escaped from the sword, go, do not stand still! Remember the LORD from far away, and let Jerusalem come into your mind:
Jeremiah 51:51 for foreigners have come into the holy places of the LORD's house.’
Jeremiah 51:52 “Therefore, behold, the days are coming, declares the LORD, whenand through all her land the wounded shall groan.
Jeremiah 51:53 Though Babylon should fortify her strong height, yet destroyers would come from me against her, declares the LORD.
Jeremiah 51:54  “A voice! A cry from Babylon! The noise of great destruction from the land of the Chaldeans!
Jeremiah 51:55 For the LORD is laying Babylon waste and stilling her mighty voice. Their waves roar like many waters; the noise of their voice is raised,
Jeremiah 51:56 for a destroyer has come upon her, upon Babylon; her warriors are taken; their bows are broken in pieces, for the LORD is a God of recompense; he will surely repay.
Jeremiah 51:57  the King, whose name is the LORD of hosts.
Jeremiah 51:58 “Thus says the LORD of hosts: The broad the nations weary themselves only for fire.”
Jeremiah 51:59 The word that Jeremiah the prophet commanded Seraiah in the fourth year of his reign. Seraiah was the quartermaster.
Jeremiah 51:60  all these words that are written concerning Babylon.
Jeremiah 51:61 And Jeremiah said to Seraiah: “When you come to Babylon, see that you read all these words,
Jeremiah 51:62 and say, ‘O LORD, you have said concerning this place that you will cut it off, so desolate forever.’
Jeremiah 51:63 When you finish reading this book, and cast it into the midst of the Euphrates,
Jeremiah 51:64 and say, and they shall become exhausted.’” Thus far are the words of Jeremiah.
Jeremiah 52:1  Zedekiah was twenty-one years old when he became king, and he reigned eleven years in Jerusalem. His mother's name was Hamutal the daughter of Jeremiah of Libnah.
Jeremiah 52:2 And he did what was evil in the sight of the LORD, according to all that Jehoiakim had done.
Jeremiah 52:3 For because of the anger of the LORD it came to the point in Jerusalem and Judah that he cast them out from his presence. And Zedekiah rebelled against the king of Babylon.
Jeremiah 52:4  And in the ninth year of his reign, in the tenth month, on the tenth day of the month, Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon came with all his army against Jerusalem, and laid siege to it. And they built siegeworks all around it.
Jeremiah 52:5 So the city was besieged till the eleventh year of King Zedekiah.
Jeremiah 52:6 On the ninth day of the fourth month the famine was so severe in the city that there was no food for the people of the land.
Jeremiah 52:7 Then a breach was made in the city, and all the men of war fled and went out from the city by night by the way of a gate between the two walls, by the king's garden, and the Chaldeans were around the city. And they went in the direction of the Arabah.
Jeremiah 52:8 But the army of the Chaldeans pursued the king and overtook Zedekiah in the plains of Jericho, and all his army was scattered from him.
Jeremiah 52:9 Then they captured the king and brought him up to the king of Babylon at Riblah in the land of Hamath, and he passed sentence on him.
Jeremiah 52:10 The king of Babylon slaughtered the sons of Zedekiah before his eyes, and also slaughtered all the officials of Judah at Riblah.
Jeremiah 52:11  till the day of his death.
Jeremiah 52:12  served the king of Babylon, entered Jerusalem.
Jeremiah 52:13 And he burned the house of the LORD, and the king's house and all the houses of Jerusalem; every great house he burned down.
Jeremiah 52:14 And all the army of the Chaldeans, who were with the captain of the guard, broke down all the walls around Jerusalem.
Jeremiah 52:15 And Nebuzaradan the captain of the guard carried away captive some of the poorest of the people and the rest of the people who were left in the city and the deserters who had deserted to the king of Babylon, together with the rest of the artisans.
Jeremiah 52:16 But Nebuzaradan the captain of the guard left some of the poorest of the land to be vinedressers and plowmen.
Jeremiah 52:17 And the carried all the bronze to Babylon.
Jeremiah 52:18 And they took away the pots and the shovels and the snuffers and the basins and the dishes for incense and all the vessels of bronze used in the temple service;
Jeremiah 52:19  and the bowls for drink offerings. What was of gold the captain of the guard took away as gold, and what was of silver, as silver.
Jeremiah 52:20 As for the two pillars, the one sea,  and the stands, which Solomon the king had made for the house of the LORD, the bronze of all these things was beyond weight.
Jeremiah 52:21 As for the pillars, the height of the one pillar was eighteen cubits, its circumference was twelve cubits, and its thickness was four fingers, and it was hollow.
Jeremiah 52:22 On it was a capital of bronze. The height of the one capital was five cubits. A network and pomegranates, all of bronze, were around the capital. And the second pillar had the same, with pomegranates.
Jeremiah 52:23 There were ninety-six pomegranates on the sides; all the pomegranates were a hundred upon the network all around.
Jeremiah 52:24 And the captain of the guard took Zephaniah the second priest and the three keepers of the threshold;
Jeremiah 52:25 and from the city he took an officer who had been in command of the men of war, and seven men of the king's council, who were found in the city; and the secretary of the commander of the army, who mustered the people of the land; and sixty men of the people of the land, who were found in the midst of the city.
Jeremiah 52:26 And Nebuzaradan the captain of the guard took them and brought them to the king of Babylon at Riblah.
Jeremiah 52:27 And the king of Babylon struck them down and put them to death at Riblah in the land of Hamath. So Judah was taken into exile out of its land.
Jeremiah 52:28 This is the number of the people whom Nebuchadnezzar carried away captive: in the seventh year, 3,023 Judeans;
Jeremiah 52:29  in the eighteenth year of Nebuchadnezzar he carried away captive from Jerusalem 832 persons;
Jeremiah 52:30 in the twenty-third year of Nebuchadnezzar, Nebuzaradan the captain of the guard carried away captive of the Judeans 745 persons; all the persons were 4,600.
Jeremiah 52:31  Jehoiachin king of Judah and brought him out of prison.
Jeremiah 52:32 And he spoke kindly to him and gave him a seat above the seats of the kings who were with him in Babylon.
Jeremiah 52:33 So Jehoiachin put off his prison garments. And every day of his life he dined regularly at the king's table,
Jeremiah 52:34 and for his allowance, a regular allowance was given him by the king, according to his daily needs, until the day of his death, as long as he lived.
Lamentations 1:1  a slave.
Lamentations 1:2 all her friends have dealt treacherously with her; they have become her enemies.
Lamentations 1:3
Lamentations 1:4 The roads to Zion mourn, for none come to  and she herself suffers bitterly.
Lamentations 1:5 her children have gone away, captives before the foe.
Lamentations 1:6 From the daughter of Zion all her majesty has departed. Her princes have become like deer that find no pasture; they fled without strength before the pursuer.
Lamentations 1:7 Jerusalem remembers in the days of her affliction and wandering  mocked at her downfall.
Lamentations 1:8  groans and turns her face away.
Lamentations 1:9 Her uncleanness was triumphed!”
Lamentations 1:10 The enemy has stretched out his hands over all her forbade to enter your congregation.
Lamentations 1:11 All her people food to revive their strength. “Look, O LORD, and see, for I am despised.”
Lamentations 1:12 “Is it nothing to you, all the day of his fierce anger.
Lamentations 1:13 “From on high hehe has left me stunned, faint all the day long.
Lamentations 1:14 “My transgressions were bound a yoke; by his hand they were fastened together; they were set upon my neck; he caused my strength to fail; the Lord gave me into the hands of those whom I cannot withstand.
Lamentations 1:15 “The Lord rejected all my mighty men in my midst; he summoned an assembly against me to crush my young men; the Lord has trodden as in a winepress the virgin daughter of Judah.
Lamentations 1:16 “For these things revive my spirit; my children are desolate, for the enemy has prevailed.”
Lamentations 1:17  there is none to comfort her; the LORD has commanded against Jacob that his neighbors should be his foes; Jerusalem has become a filthy thing among them.
Lamentations 1:18 my young women and my young men have gone into captivity.
Lamentations 1:19 “I called to they sought food to revive their strength.
Lamentations 1:20 “Look, O LORD, for I am in distress; In the street the sword bereaves; in the house it is like death.
Lamentations 1:21 “They heardnow let them be as I am.
Lamentations 1:22  my heart is faint.”
Lamentations 2:1 How the Lord in his anger has set the daughter of Zion his footstool in the day of his anger.
Lamentations 2:2 The Lord and its rulers.
Lamentations 2:3 He has cut down inhe has burned like a flaming fire in Jacob, consuming all around.
Lamentations 2:4  like a foe; and he has killed all who were delightful in our eyes in the tent of the daughter of Zion; he has poured out his fury like fire.
Lamentations 2:5 mourning and lamentation.
Lamentations 2:6 He has laid waste his booth like a garden, laid in ruins Sabbath, and in his fierce indignation has spurned king and priest.
Lamentations 2:7 they raised a clamor in the house of the LORD as on the day of festival.
Lamentations 2:8 they languished together.
Lamentations 2:9 Her gates have sunk into the ground;  her prophets find no vision from the LORD.
Lamentations 2:10 The elders of the daughter of Zion  put on sackcloth; the young women of Jerusalem have bowed their heads to the ground.
Lamentations 2:11  faint in the streets of the city.
Lamentations 2:12 They cry to their mothers, as they faint like a wounded man in the streets of the city, as their life is poured out on their mothers' bosom.
Lamentations 2:13 What can I say for you,For your ruin is vast as the sea; who can heal you?
Lamentations 2:14  oracles that are false and misleading.
Lamentations 2:15 All who pass along the way clap their hands at you; the joy of all the earth?”
Lamentations 2:16  we see it!”
Lamentations 2:17 The LORD has done what he purposed; he has carried out might of your foes.
Lamentations 2:18 Their heart cried to the Lord. Oyour eyes no respite!
Lamentations 2:19 “Arise,who faint for hunger at the head of every street.”
Lamentations 2:20 Look, O LORD, and see!  priest and prophet be killed in the sanctuary of the Lord?
Lamentations 2:21 In the dust of the streets  without pity.
Lamentations 2:22 You summoned as if tothose whom I held and raised my enemy destroyed.
Lamentations 3:1  rod of his wrath;
Lamentations 3:2 he has driven and brought me into darkness without any light;
Lamentations 3:3 surely against me he turns his hand again and again the whole day long.
Lamentations 3:4 He has made my flesh and my skin waste away; he has broken my bones;
Lamentations 3:5  bitterness and tribulation;
Lamentations 3:6  he has made me dwell in darkness like the dead of long ago.
Lamentations 3:7  I cannot escape; he has made my chains heavy;
Lamentations 3:8 though I call and cry for help, he shuts out my prayer;
Lamentations 3:9  he has blocked my ways with blocks of stones; he has made my paths crooked.
Lamentations 3:10  He is a bear lying in wait for me, a lion in hiding;
Lamentations 3:11 he has made me desolate;
Lamentations 3:12  and set me as a target for his arrow.
Lamentations 3:13 He drove into my kidneys the arrows of his quiver;
Lamentations 3:14 the object of their taunts all day long.
Lamentations 3:15  wormwood.
Lamentations 3:16  made me cower in ashes;
Lamentations 3:17 my soul is bereft of peace; I have forgotten what happiness  is;
Lamentations 3:18  so I say, “My endurance has perished; so has my hope from the LORD.”
Lamentations 3:19  the gall!
Lamentations 3:20 My soul continually remembers it and is bowed down within me.
Lamentations 3:21 But this I call to mind, and therefore I have hope:
Lamentations 3:22 his mercies never come to an end;
Lamentations 3:23 they are newgreat is your faithfulness.
Lamentations 3:24 “therefore I will hope in him.”
Lamentations 3:25 The LORD is good to those who wait for him, to the soul who seeks him.
Lamentations 3:26  It is good that one should wait quietly for the salvation of the LORD.
Lamentations 3:27  in his youth.
Lamentations 3:28 Let him sit alone in silence when it is laid on him;
Lamentations 3:29  let him put his mouth in the dust — there may yet be hope;
Lamentations 3:30  let him give his cheek to the one who strikes, and let him be filled with insults.
Lamentations 3:31  For the Lord will not cast off forever,
Lamentations 3:32 but, though heaccording to the abundance of his steadfast love;
Lamentations 3:33  grieve the children of men.
Lamentations 3:34 To crush underfoot all the prisoners of the earth,
Lamentations 3:35  to deny a man justice in the presence of the Most High,
Lamentations 3:36 to subvert a man in his lawsuit, the Lord does not approve.
Lamentations 3:37  Who has spoken and it came to pass, unless the Lord has commanded it?
Lamentations 3:38  Is it not from the mouth of the Most High that good and bad come?
Lamentations 3:39  Why should a living man complain, a man, about the punishment of his sins?
Lamentations 3:40 Let us test and examine our ways, and return to the LORD!
Lamentations 3:41  Let us lift up our hearts and hands to God in heaven:
Lamentations 3:42  rebelled, and you have not forgiven.
Lamentations 3:43 “You have wrapped yourself with anger and pursued us, killing without pity;
Lamentations 3:44  you have wrapped yourself with a cloud so that no prayer can pass through.
Lamentations 3:45  You have made us scum and garbage among the peoples.
Lamentations 3:46  “All our enemies open their mouths against us;
Lamentations 3:47  destruction;
Lamentations 3:48  my eyes flow with rivers of tears because of the destruction of the daughter of my people.
Lamentations 3:49  “My eyes will flow without ceasing, without respite,
Lamentations 3:50  until the LORD from heaven looks down and sees;
Lamentations 3:51 my eyes cause me grief at the fate of all the daughters of my city.
Lamentations 3:52  without cause;
Lamentations 3:53 and cast stones on me;
Lamentations 3:54  ‘I am lost.’
Lamentations 3:55  “I called on your name, O LORD, from the depths of the pit;
Lamentations 3:56  you heard my plea, ‘Do not close your ear to my cry for help!’
Lamentations 3:57  ‘Do not fear!’
Lamentations 3:58 “You have redeemed my life.
Lamentations 3:59 You have seen the wrong done to me, O LORD; judge my cause.
Lamentations 3:60 You have seen all their vengeance, all their plots against me.
Lamentations 3:61  their plots against me.
Lamentations 3:62 The lips and thoughts of my assailants are against me all the day long.
Lamentations 3:63 I am the object of their taunts.
Lamentations 3:64 according to the work of their hands.
Lamentations 3:65 You will give them  on them.
Lamentations 3:66 You will pursue them
Lamentations 4:1 at the head of every street.
Lamentations 4:2 The precious sons of Zion, worth their weight in earthen pots, the work of a potter's hands!
Lamentations 4:3 Even jackals offer the breast; they nurse their young; but the daughter of my people has become cruel, like the ostriches in the wilderness.
Lamentations 4:4 The tongue of the nursing infantthe children beg for food, but no one gives to them.
Lamentations 4:5 Those who once feasted on delicacies perish in the streets; those who were brought up in purple embrace ash heaps.
Lamentations 4:6
Lamentations 4:7 Her princes were purer than snow, whiter than milk; their bodies were more ruddy than coral, the beauty of their form
Lamentations 4:8  Now their face is blacker than soot; they are not recognized in the streets; their skin has shriveled on their bones; it has become as dry as wood.
Lamentations 4:9 Happier were the victims of the sword than the victims of hunger, who wasted away, pierced by lack of the fruits of the field.
Lamentations 4:10 they became their food during the destruction of the daughter of my people.
Lamentations 4:11  he kindled a fire in Zion that consumed its foundations.
Lamentations 4:12  The kings of the earth did not believe, nor any of the inhabitants of the world, that foe or enemy could enter the gates of Jerusalem.
Lamentations 4:13 This was for the iniquities of her priests, who shed in the midst of her the blood of the righteous.
Lamentations 4:14 that no one was able to touch their garments.
Lamentations 4:15 “Away! Unclean!” people cried at them. “Away! Away! Do not touch!” So they became fugitives and wanderers; people said among the nations, “They shall stay with us no longer.”
Lamentations 4:16 no favor to the elders.
Lamentations 4:17  a nation which could not save.
Lamentations 4:18 our end drew near; our days were numbered, for our end had come.
Lamentations 4:19 Our pursuers were swifter than the eagles in the heavens; they chased us on the mountains; they lay in wait for us in the wilderness.
Lamentations 4:20  “Under his shadow we shall live among the nations.”
Lamentations 4:21  the cup shall pass; you shall become drunk and strip yourself bare.
Lamentations 4:22  your iniquity, O daughter of Edom, he will punish; he will uncover your sins.
Lamentations 5:1  our disgrace!
Lamentations 5:2  Our inheritance has been turned over to strangers, our homes to foreigners.
Lamentations 5:3 We have become orphans, fatherless; our mothers are like widows.
Lamentations 5:4 We must pay for the water we drink; the wood we get must be bought.
Lamentations 5:5  Our pursuers are at our necks; we are weary; we are given no rest.
Lamentations 5:6 We have given the hand to Assyria, to get bread enough.
Lamentations 5:7 Our fathers sinned, and are no more; and we bear their iniquities.
Lamentations 5:8  Slaves rule over us; there is none to deliver us from their hand.
Lamentations 5:9  We get our bread at the peril of our lives, because of the sword in the wilderness.
Lamentations 5:10  the burning heat of famine.
Lamentations 5:11 Women are raped in Zion, young women in the towns of Judah.
Lamentations 5:12 no respect is shown to the elders.
Lamentations 5:13 Young men are compelled to under loads of wood.
Lamentations 5:14  their music.
Lamentations 5:15 our dancing has been turned to mourning.
Lamentations 5:16  The crown has fallen from our head; woe to us, for we have sinned!
Lamentations 5:17 For this our eyes have grown dim,
Lamentations 5:18 for Mount Zion which lies desolate; jackals prowl over it.
Lamentations 5:19  But you, O LORD, reign forever; your throne endures to all generations.
Lamentations 5:20  Why do you forget us forever, why do you forsake us for so many days?
Lamentations 5:21  Restore us to yourself, O LORD, that we may be restored! Renew our days as of old —
Lamentations 5:22  unless you have utterly rejected us, and you remain exceedingly angry with us.
Ezekiel 1:1
Ezekiel 1:2 On the fifth day of the month (it was the exile of King Jehoiachin),
Ezekiel 1:3 the word of the LORD came to Ezekiel the hand of the LORD was upon him there.
Ezekiel 1:4 As I looked, behold,
Ezekiel 1:5 And from the midst of it came the likeness of And this was their appearance: they had a human likeness,
Ezekiel 1:6  but each had four faces, and each of them had four wings.
Ezekiel 1:7 Their legs were straight, and the soles of their feet were like the sole of a calf's foot. And they sparkled like burnished bronze.
Ezekiel 1:8 Under their wings they had human hands. And the four had their faces and their wings thus:
Ezekiel 1:9 their wings touched one another. without turning as they went.
Ezekiel 1:10 As for the likeness of their faces, each had a human face. The four had the face of a lion on the right side, the four had the face of an ox on the left side, and the four had the face of an eagle.
Ezekiel 1:11 Such were their faces. And their wings were spread out above. Each creature had two wings, each of which touched the wing of another, while two covered their bodies.
Ezekiel 1:12   would go, they went, without turning as they went.
Ezekiel 1:13 As for the likeness of the living creatures, their appearance was And the fire was bright, and out of the fire went forth lightning.
Ezekiel 1:14 And the living creatures like the appearance of a flash of lightning.
Ezekiel 1:15
Ezekiel 1:16  And the four had the same likeness, their appearance and construction being as it were a wheel within a wheel.
Ezekiel 1:17  without turning as they went.
Ezekiel 1:18 And their rims were tall and awesome, and the rims of all four were full of eyes all around.
Ezekiel 1:19  and when the living creatures rose from the earth, the wheels rose.
Ezekiel 1:20   was in the wheels.
Ezekiel 1:21  for the spirit of the living creatures was in the wheels.
Ezekiel 1:22 Over the heads of the living creatures there was crystal, spread out above their heads.
Ezekiel 1:23 And under the expanse their wings were And each creature had two wings covering its body.
Ezekiel 1:24 And when they went, I heard the sound of their wings like the sound of an army. When they stood still, they let down their wings.
Ezekiel 1:25 And there came a voice from above the expanse over their heads. When they stood still, they let down their wings.
Ezekiel 1:26 And above the expanse over their heads there was a likeness with a human appearance.
Ezekiel 1:27 And
Ezekiel 1:28 Like the appearance of I fell on my face, and I heard the voice of one speaking.
Ezekiel 2:1 And he said to me, stand on your feet, and I will speak with you.”
Ezekiel 2:2 And as he spoke to me, set me on my feet, and I heard him speaking to me.
Ezekiel 2:3 And he said to me, “Son of man, I send you to the people of Israel, to They and their fathers have transgressed against me to this very day.
Ezekiel 2:4 The descendants also are impudent and stubborn: I send you to them, and you shall say to them, ‘Thus says the Lord GOD.’
Ezekiel 2:5 And they will know that a prophet has been among them.
Ezekiel 2:6 And you, son of man,  Be not afraid of their words, nor be dismayed at their looks, for they are a rebellious house.
Ezekiel 2:7 And you shall speak my words to them, whether they hear or refuse to hear, for they are a rebellious house.
Ezekiel 2:8 “But you, son of man, hear what I say to you. eat what I give you.”
Ezekiel 2:9 And when I looked, behold, a scroll of a book was in it.
Ezekiel 2:10 And he spread it before me. And it had writing on the front and on the back, and there were written on it words of lamentation and mourning and woe.
Ezekiel 3:1 And he said to me, Eat this scroll, and go, speak to the house of Israel.”
Ezekiel 3:2 So I opened my mouth, and he gave me this scroll to eat.
Ezekiel 3:3 And he said to me, “Son of man, feed your belly with this scroll that I give you and fill your stomach with it.” as sweet as honey.
Ezekiel 3:4 And he said to me, “Son of man, go to the house of Israel and speak with my words to them.
Ezekiel 3:5 For you are not sent to a people of foreign speech and a hard language, but to the house of Israel —
Ezekiel 3:6 not to many peoples of foreign speech and a hard language, whose words you cannot understand. Surely, if I sent you to such, they would listen to you.
Ezekiel 3:7  have a hard forehead and a stubborn heart.
Ezekiel 3:8  Behold, I have made your face as hard as their faces, and your forehead as hard as their foreheads.
Ezekiel 3:9 Like Fear them not, nor be dismayed at their looks, for they are a rebellious house.”
Ezekiel 3:10 Moreover, he said to me, “Son of man, in your heart, and hear with your ears.
Ezekiel 3:11 And go to the exiles, whether they hear or refuse to hear.”
Ezekiel 3:12  a great earthquake: “Blessed be the glory of the LORD from its place!”
Ezekiel 3:13 It was the sound of the wings of a great earthquake.
Ezekiel 3:14  hand of the LORD being strong upon me.
Ezekiel 3:15  seven days.
Ezekiel 3:16  And at the end of seven days, the word of the LORD came to me:
Ezekiel 3:17  give them warning from me.
Ezekiel 3:18  but his blood I will require at your hand.
Ezekiel 3:19  will have delivered your soul.
Ezekiel 3:20  but his blood I will require at your hand.
Ezekiel 3:21 But if you warn the righteous person not to sin, and he does not sin, he shall surely live, because he took warning, and you will have delivered your soul.”
Ezekiel 3:22  there I will speak with you.”
Ezekiel 3:23 So I arose and went out into the valley, and behold, and I fell on my face.
Ezekiel 3:24  But the Spirit entered into me and set me on my feet, and he spoke with me and said to me, “Go, shut yourself within your house.
Ezekiel 3:25 And you, O son of man, behold, cords will be placed upon you, and you shall be bound with them, so that you cannot go out among the people.
Ezekiel 3:26 And I will make your tongue cling to the roof of your mouth, so that for they are a rebellious house.
Ezekiel 3:27  He who will hear, let him hear; and he who will refuse to hear, let him refuse, for they are a rebellious house.
Ezekiel 4:1 “And you, take a brick and lay it before you, and engrave on it a city, even Jerusalem.
Ezekiel 4:2  and plant battering rams against it all around.
Ezekiel 4:3 And you, take an iron griddle, and place it as an iron wall between you and the city; a sign for the house of Israel.
Ezekiel 4:4 “Then lie on your left side, and place the punishment you shall bear their punishment.
Ezekiel 4:5 For I assign to you a number of days, the punishment of the house of Israel.
Ezekiel 4:6 And when you have completed these, you shall lie down a second time, but on your right side, and Forty days I assign you, a day for each year.
Ezekiel 4:7  with your arm bared, and you shall prophesy against the city.
Ezekiel 4:8 And behold, the days of your siege.
Ezekiel 4:9 “And you, take wheat and barley, beans and lentils, millet and emmer, 390 days, you shall eat it.
Ezekiel 4:10 And your food that you eat shall be  you shall eat it.
Ezekiel 4:11 And water you shall drink  from day to day you shall drink.
Ezekiel 4:12 And you shall eat it as a barley cake, baking it in their sight on human dung.”
Ezekiel 4:13 And the LORD said, “Thus shall the people of Israel eat their bread unclean, among the nations where I will drive them.”
Ezekiel 4:14 Then I said, tainted meat come into my mouth.”
Ezekiel 4:15 Then he said to me, “See, I assign to you cow's dung instead of human dung, on which you may prepare your bread.”
Ezekiel 4:16 Moreover, he said to me, by measure and in dismay.
Ezekiel 4:17 I will do this that they may lack bread and water, and rot away because of their punishment.
Ezekiel 5:1 “And you, pass it over your head and your beard. Then take balances for weighing and divide the hair.
Ezekiel 5:2  I will unsheathe the sword after them.
Ezekiel 5:3  And you shall take from these a small number and bind them in the skirts of your robe.
Ezekiel 5:4  And of these again you shall take some and cast them into the midst of the fire and burn them in the fire. From there a fire will come out into all the house of Israel.
Ezekiel 5:5 “Thus says the Lord GOD: in the center of the nations, with countries all around her.
Ezekiel 5:6 And she has rebelled against my rules by doing wickedness the countries all around her; for they have rejected my rules and have not walked in my statutes.
Ezekiel 5:7 Therefore thus says the Lord GOD: Because you are  even acted according to the rules of the nations that are all around you,
Ezekiel 5:8 therefore thus says the Lord GOD: Behold, I, even I, in the sight of the nations.
Ezekiel 5:9 And because of all your abominations I will do with you what I have never yet done, and the like of which I will never do again.
Ezekiel 5:10 Therefore and any of you who survive I will scatter to all the winds.
Ezekiel 5:11 Therefore, My eye will not spare, and I will have no pity.
Ezekiel 5:12  and a third part I will scatter to all the winds and will unsheathe the sword after them.
Ezekiel 5:13  when I spend my fury upon them.
Ezekiel 5:14 Moreover, I will make you the nations all around you and in the sight of all who pass by.
Ezekiel 5:15 You shall be with furious rebukes — I am the LORD; I have spoken —
Ezekiel 5:16 when I send against you  of bread.
Ezekiel 5:17 I will send famine and blood shall pass through you, and I will bring the sword upon you. I am the LORD; I have spoken.”
Ezekiel 6:1 The word of the LORD came to me:
Ezekiel 6:2  prophesy against them,
Ezekiel 6:3 and say, and I will destroy your high places.
Ezekiel 6:4  incense altars shall be broken, and I will cast down your slain before your idols.
Ezekiel 6:5  and I will scatter your bones around your altars.
Ezekiel 6:6 Wherever you dwell, incense altars cut down, and your works wiped out.
Ezekiel 6:7 And the slain shall fall in your midst, and you shall know that I am the LORD.
Ezekiel 6:8  some who escape the sword, and when you are scattered through the countries,
Ezekiel 6:9 then those of you who escape And they will be loathsome in their own sight for the evils that they have committed, for all their abominations.
Ezekiel 6:10 And they shall know that I am the LORD. I have not said in vain that I would do this evil to them.”
Ezekiel 6:11 Thus says the Lord GOD: for they shall fall by the sword, by famine, and by pestilence.
Ezekiel 6:12  Thus I will spend my fury upon them.
Ezekiel 6:13 And you shall know that I am the LORD, they offered pleasing aroma to all their idols.
Ezekiel 6:14 And they will know that I am the LORD.”
Ezekiel 7:1 The word of the LORD came to me:
Ezekiel 7:2 “And you,
Ezekiel 7:3 Now I will judge you according to your ways, and I will punish you for all your abominations.
Ezekiel 7:4  Then you will know that I am the LORD.
Ezekiel 7:5 “Thus says the Lord GOD: Disaster  Behold, it comes.
Ezekiel 7:6  An end has come; the end has come; it has awakened against you. Behold, it comes.
Ezekiel 7:7  of joyful shouting on the mountains.
Ezekiel 7:8 Now I will soon and judge you according to your ways, and I will punish you for all your abominations.
Ezekiel 7:9  Then you will know that I am the LORD, who strikes.
Ezekiel 7:10  the rod has blossomed; pride has budded.
Ezekiel 7:11
Ezekiel 7:12
Ezekiel 7:13 For
Ezekiel 7:14 “They have blown the trumpet and made everything ready, but none goes to battle, for my wrath is upon all their multitude.
Ezekiel 7:15  and him who is in the city famine and pestilence devour.
Ezekiel 7:16  doves of the valleys, all of them moaning, each one over his iniquity.
Ezekiel 7:17  All hands are feeble, and all knees turn to water.
Ezekiel 7:18  baldness on all their heads.
Ezekiel 7:19 They cast their silver into the streets, and their gold is like an unclean thing. the stumbling block of their iniquity.
Ezekiel 7:20  I make it an unclean thing to them.
Ezekiel 7:21 And I will give it into the hands of they shall profane it.
Ezekiel 7:22 I will turn my face from them, and and profane it.
Ezekiel 7:23  and the city is full of violence.
Ezekiel 7:24 I will bring  shall be profaned.
Ezekiel 7:25  they will seek peace, but there shall be none.
Ezekiel 7:26  counsel from the elders.
Ezekiel 7:27 The king mourns, the prince is wrapped in despair, and the hands of the people of the land are paralyzed by terror. According to their way and they shall know that I am the LORD.”
Ezekiel 8:1  the hand of the Lord GOD fell upon me there.
Ezekiel 8:2 Then I looked, and behold,
Ezekiel 8:3 He which provokes to jealousy.
Ezekiel 8:4 And behold, in the valley.
Ezekiel 8:5 Then he said to me, image of jealousy.
Ezekiel 8:6 And he said to me, “Son of man, to drive me far from my sanctuary? But you will see still greater abominations.”
Ezekiel 8:7 And he brought me to the entrance of the court, and when I looked, behold, there was a hole in the wall.
Ezekiel 8:8 Then he said to me, “Son of man, dig in the wall.” So I dug in the wall, and behold, there was an entrance.
Ezekiel 8:9 And he said to me, “Go in, and see the vile abominations that they are committing here.”
Ezekiel 8:10 So I went in and saw. And there, creeping things and loathsome beasts, and all the idols of the house of Israel.
Ezekiel 8:11 And before them stood the smoke of the cloud of incense went up.
Ezekiel 8:12 Then he said to me, “Son of man, have you seen what the elders of the house of Israel are doing ‘The LORD does not see us, the LORD has forsaken the land.’”
Ezekiel 8:13 He said also to me, “You will see still greater abominations that they commit.”
Ezekiel 8:14 Then he brought me to the entrance of the north gate of the house of the LORD, and behold, there sat women weeping for Tammuz.
Ezekiel 8:15 Then he said to me, “Have you seen this, O You will see still greater abominations than these.”
Ezekiel 8:16 And he brought me into the sun toward the east.
Ezekiel 8:17 Then he said to me, “Have you seen this, O  nose.
Ezekiel 8:18 Therefore And though they cry in my ears with a loud voice, I will not hear them.”
Ezekiel 9:1 Then he cried in my ears with a loud voice, saying, “Bring near the executioners of the city, each with his destroying weapon in his hand.”
Ezekiel 9:2 And behold, six men came from the direction of the bronze altar.
Ezekiel 9:3 Now the man clothed in linen, who had the writing case at his waist.
Ezekiel 9:4 And the LORD said to him, “Pass through the city, through Jerusalem, and sigh and groan over all the abominations that are committed in it.”
Ezekiel 9:5 And to Your eye shall not spare, and you shall show no pity.
Ezekiel 9:6  begin at my sanctuary.” So they began with the elders who were before the house.
Ezekiel 9:7 Then he said to them, “Defile the house, and fill the courts with the slain. Go out.” So they went out and struck in the city.
Ezekiel 9:8 And while they were striking, and I was left alone, in the outpouring of your wrath on Jerusalem?”
Ezekiel 9:9 Then he said to me, they say, ‘The LORD has forsaken the land, and the LORD does not see.’
Ezekiel 9:10 As for me, I will bring their deeds upon their heads.”
Ezekiel 9:11 And behold, the man clothed in linen, with the writing case at his waist, brought back word, saying, “I have done as you commanded me.”
Ezekiel 10:1 Then I looked, and behold,  in appearance like a throne.
Ezekiel 10:2 And he said to before my eyes.
Ezekiel 10:3 Now the cherubim were standing the inner court.
Ezekiel 10:4 And the brightness of the glory of the LORD.
Ezekiel 10:5 And like the voice of God Almighty when he speaks.
Ezekiel 10:6 And when he commanded the whirling wheels, from between the cherubim,” he went in and stood beside a wheel.
Ezekiel 10:7 And a cherub stretched out his hand from between the cherubim to the fire that was between the cherubim, and took some of it and put it into the hands of the man clothed in linen, who took it and went out.
Ezekiel 10:8 The cherubim appeared to have the form of a human hand under their wings.
Ezekiel 10:9  beryl.
Ezekiel 10:10 And as for their appearance, the four had the same likeness, as if a wheel were within a wheel.
Ezekiel 10:11   faced, the others followed without turning as they went.
Ezekiel 10:12   and the wheels were full of eyes all around — the wheels that the four of them had.
Ezekiel 10:13 As for the wheels, they were called in my hearing “the whirling wheels.”
Ezekiel 10:14  a human face, and the third the face of a lion, and the fourth the face of an eagle.
Ezekiel 10:15  the Chebar canal.
Ezekiel 10:16  when the cherubim lifted up their wings to mount up from the earth, the wheels did not turn from beside them.
Ezekiel 10:17   was in them.
Ezekiel 10:18  the glory of the LORD went out from the threshold of the house, and stood over the cherubim.
Ezekiel 10:19  the glory of the God of Israel was over them.
Ezekiel 10:20  the Chebar canal; and I knew that they were cherubim.
Ezekiel 10:21  the likeness of human hands.
Ezekiel 10:22  Each one of them went straight forward.
Ezekiel 11:1  Pelatiah the son of Benaiah, princes of the people.
Ezekiel 11:2 And he said to me, “Son of man, these are the men who devise iniquity and who give wicked counsel in this city;
Ezekiel 11:3  This city is the cauldron, and we are the meat.’
Ezekiel 11:4 Therefore prophesy against them; prophesy, O son of man.”
Ezekiel 11:5 And For I know the things that come into your mind.
Ezekiel 11:6  You have multiplied your slain in this city and have filled its streets with the slain.
Ezekiel 11:7 Therefore thus says the Lord GOD: this city is the cauldron, but you shall be brought out of the midst of it.
Ezekiel 11:8  You have feared the sword, and I will bring the sword upon you, declares the Lord GOD.
Ezekiel 11:9 And I will bring you out of the midst of it, and execute judgments upon you.
Ezekiel 11:10  and you shall know that I am the LORD.
Ezekiel 11:11  This city shall not be your cauldron, nor shall you be the meat in the midst of it. I will judge you at the border of Israel,
Ezekiel 11:12 and you shall know that I am the LORD. For you have not walked in my statutes, nor obeyed my rules, but have acted according to the rules of the nations that are around you.”
Ezekiel 11:13 And it came to pass, while I was prophesying, Will you make a full end of the remnant of Israel?”
Ezekiel 11:14 And the word of the LORD came to me:
Ezekiel 11:15  ‘Go far from the LORD; to us this land is given for a possession.’
Ezekiel 11:16 Therefore say, ‘Thus says the Lord GOD: Though I removed them far off among the nations, and though I scattered them among the countries, yet  in the countries where they have gone.’
Ezekiel 11:17 Therefore say, ‘Thus says the Lord GOD: and I will give you the land of Israel.’
Ezekiel 11:18 And when they come there, detestable things and all its abominations.
Ezekiel 11:19  and give them a heart of flesh,
Ezekiel 11:20  And they shall be my people, and I will be their God.
Ezekiel 11:21   bring their deeds upon their own heads, declares the Lord GOD.”
Ezekiel 11:22  and the glory of the God of Israel was over them.
Ezekiel 11:23 And the glory of the LORD went up from the midst of the city and stood on the mountain that is on the east side of the city.
Ezekiel 11:24  into Chaldea, to the exiles. Then the vision that I had seen went up from me.
Ezekiel 11:25 And I told the exiles all the things that the LORD had shown me.
Ezekiel 12:1 The word of the LORD came to me:
Ezekiel 12:2  a rebellious house.
Ezekiel 12:3 As for you, son of man, prepare for yourself  they are a rebellious house.
Ezekiel 12:4 You shall bring out your baggage by day in their sight, as baggage for exile, and you shall go out yourself at evening in their sight, as those do who must go into exile.
Ezekiel 12:5 In their sight dig through the wall, and bring your baggage out through it.
Ezekiel 12:6 In their sight you shall lift the baggage upon your shoulder and carry it out at dusk. You shall cover your face that you may not see the land, for I have made you a sign for the house of Israel.”
Ezekiel 12:7  I brought out my baggage by day, as baggage for exile, and in the evening I dug through the wall with my own hands. I brought out my baggage at dusk, carrying it on my shoulder in their sight.
Ezekiel 12:8 In the morning the word of the LORD came to me:
Ezekiel 12:9  ‘What are you doing?’
Ezekiel 12:10 Say to them, ‘Thus says the Lord GOD: This oracle concerns
Ezekiel 12:11 Say, as I have done, so shall it be done to them. They shall go into exile, into captivity.’
Ezekiel 12:12  He shall cover his face, that he may not see the land with his eyes.
Ezekiel 12:13  yet he shall not see it, and he shall die there.
Ezekiel 12:14  and I will unsheathe the sword after them.
Ezekiel 12:15  And they shall know that I am the LORD, when I disperse them among the nations and scatter them among the countries.
Ezekiel 12:16  and may know that I am the LORD.”
Ezekiel 12:17 And the word of the LORD came to me:
Ezekiel 12:18  eat your bread with quaking, and drink water with trembling and with anxiety.
Ezekiel 12:19 And say to the people of the land, Thus says the Lord GOD concerning the inhabitants of Jerusalem in the land of Israel: on account of the violence of all those who dwell in it.
Ezekiel 12:20  And the inhabited cities shall be laid waste, and the land shall become a desolation; and you shall know that I am the LORD.”
Ezekiel 12:21 And the word of the LORD came to me:
Ezekiel 12:22 “Son of man, ‘The days grow long, and every vision comes to nothing’?
Ezekiel 12:23 Tell them therefore, ‘Thus says the Lord GOD: I will put an end to this proverb, and they shall no more use it as a proverb in Israel.’ But say to them,  of every vision.
Ezekiel 12:24  false vision or flattering divination within the house of Israel.
Ezekiel 12:25 For I am the LORD; I will speak O rebellious house, I will speak the word and perform it, declares the Lord GOD.”
Ezekiel 12:26 And the word of the LORD came to me:
Ezekiel 12:27 “Son of man, behold, they of the house of Israel say, for many days from now, and he prophesies of times far off.’
Ezekiel 12:28 Therefore say to them, Thus says the Lord GOD: but the word that I speak will be performed, declares the Lord GOD.”
Ezekiel 13:1 The word of the LORD came to me:
Ezekiel 13:2  who prophesy from their own hearts: ‘Hear the word of the LORD!’
Ezekiel 13:3 Thus says the Lord GOD, Woe to the foolish prophets who follow their own spirit, and have seen nothing!
Ezekiel 13:4 Your prophets have been like jackals among ruins, O Israel.
Ezekiel 13:5  You have not gone up into the breaches, or built up a wall for the house of Israel, that it might stand in battle in the day of the LORD.
Ezekiel 13:6  when the LORD has not sent them, and yet they expect him to fulfill their word.
Ezekiel 13:7 Have you not seen a false vision and uttered a lying divination, whenever you have said, ‘Declares the LORD,’ although I have not spoken?”
Ezekiel 13:8 Therefore thus says the Lord GOD: “Because you have uttered falsehood and seen lying visions, therefore behold, I am against you, declares the Lord GOD.
Ezekiel 13:9 My hand will be against the prophets who see false visions and who give lying divinations. They shall not be in the council of my people, And you shall know that I am the Lord GOD.
Ezekiel 13:10 Precisely because they have misled my people,
Ezekiel 13:11 say to those who smear it with whitewash that it shall fall! There will be a deluge of rain, and you, O great hailstones, will fall, and a stormy wind break out.
Ezekiel 13:12 And when the wall falls, will it not be said to you, ‘Where is the coating with which you smeared it?’
Ezekiel 13:13 Therefore thus says the Lord GOD: and there shall be a deluge of rain in my anger, and great hailstones in wrath to make a full end.
Ezekiel 13:14 And I will break down the wall that you have smeared with whitewash, and bring it down to the ground, so that its foundation will be laid bare. When it falls, you shall perish in the midst of it, and you shall know that I am the LORD.
Ezekiel 13:15 Thus will I spend my wrath upon the wall and upon those who have smeared it with whitewash, and I will say to you, The wall is no more, nor those who smeared it,
Ezekiel 13:16 the prophets of Israel who prophesied concerning Jerusalem and saw visions of peace for her, when there was no peace, declares the Lord GOD.
Ezekiel 13:17 “And you, son of man, who prophesy out of their own hearts. Prophesy against them
Ezekiel 13:18 and say, Thus says the Lord GOD: Woe to the women the hunt for souls! Will you hunt down souls belonging to my people and keep your own souls alive?
Ezekiel 13:19 You have profaned me among my people and for pieces of bread, putting to death souls who should not die and keeping alive souls who should not live, by your lying to my people, who listen to lies.
Ezekiel 13:20 “Therefore thus says the Lord GOD: Behold, your magic bands with which you hunt the souls like birds, and I will tear them from your arms, and I will let the souls whom you hunt go free, the souls like birds.
Ezekiel 13:21 Your veils also I will tear off and and you shall know that I am the LORD.
Ezekiel 13:22  he should not turn from his evil way to save his life,
Ezekiel 13:23  therefore you shall no more see false visions nor practice divination. I will deliver my people out of your hand. And you shall know that I am the LORD.”
Ezekiel 14:1 Then certain of the and sat before me.
Ezekiel 14:2 And the word of the LORD came to me:
Ezekiel 14:3  Should I indeed let myself be consulted by them?
Ezekiel 14:4 Therefore speak to them and say to them, Thus says the Lord GOD: Any one of the house of Israel who takes his idols into his heart and sets the stumbling block of his iniquity before his face, and yet comes to the prophet, I the LORD will answer him as he comes with the multitude of his idols,
Ezekiel 14:5  who are all estranged from me through their idols.
Ezekiel 14:6 “Therefore say to the house of Israel, Thus says the Lord GOD: Repent and turn away from your idols, and turn away your faces from all your abominations.
Ezekiel 14:7 For any one of the house of Israel, or of the strangers who sojourn in Israel, I the LORD will answer him myself.
Ezekiel 14:8 And and you shall know that I am the LORD.
Ezekiel 14:9 And if the prophet is deceived and speaks a word, I, the LORD, have deceived that prophet, and I will stretch out my hand against him and will destroy him from the midst of my people Israel.
Ezekiel 14:10 And they shall bear their punishment  — the punishment of the prophet and the punishment of the inquirer shall be alike —
Ezekiel 14:11 that the house of Israel may no more go astray from me, nor but that they may be my people and I may be their God, declares the Lord GOD.”
Ezekiel 14:12 And the word of the LORD came to me:
Ezekiel 14:13  cut off from it man and beast,
Ezekiel 14:14  they would deliver but their own lives by their righteousness, declares the Lord GOD.
Ezekiel 14:15  and it be made desolate, so that no one may pass through because of the beasts,
Ezekiel 14:16 even if these three men were in it, the land would be desolate.
Ezekiel 14:17 “Or and I cut off from it man and beast,
Ezekiel 14:18  though these three men were in it, as I live, declares the Lord GOD, they would deliver neither sons nor daughters, but they alone would be delivered.
Ezekiel 14:19 “Or if I send a pestilence into that land and pour out my wrath upon it with blood, to cut off from it man and beast,
Ezekiel 14:20 even if Noah, Daniel, and Job were in it, as I live, declares the Lord GOD, they would deliver neither son nor daughter. They would deliver but their own lives by their righteousness.
Ezekiel 14:21 “For thus says the Lord GOD: How much more pestilence, to cut off from it man and beast!
Ezekiel 14:22 But behold, you see their ways and their deeds, you will be consoled for the disaster that I have brought upon Jerusalem, for all that I have brought upon it.
Ezekiel 14:23 They will console you, when you see their ways and their deeds, and you shall know that I have not done without cause all that I have done in it, declares the Lord GOD.”
Ezekiel 15:1 And the word of the LORD came to me:
Ezekiel 15:2  the wood of the vine surpass any wood, the vine branch that is among the trees of the forest?
Ezekiel 15:3 Is wood taken from it to make anything? Do people take a peg from it to hang any vessel on it?
Ezekiel 15:4  Behold, it is given to the fire for fuel. When the fire has consumed both ends of it, and the middle of it is charred, is it useful for anything?
Ezekiel 15:5  Behold, when it was whole, it was used for nothing. How much less, when the fire has consumed it and it is charred, can it ever be used for anything!
Ezekiel 15:6 Therefore thus says the Lord GOD: which I have given to the fire for fuel, so have I given up the inhabitants of Jerusalem.
Ezekiel 15:7  when I set my face against them.
Ezekiel 15:8  they have acted faithlessly, declares the Lord GOD.”
Ezekiel 16:1 Again the word of the LORD came to me:
Ezekiel 16:2  make known to Jerusalem her abominations,
Ezekiel 16:3 and say, Thus says the Lord GOD to Jerusalem: Your origin and your birth are of the land of the Canaanites; your father was an Hittite.
Ezekiel 16:4 And as for your birth, on the day you were born your cord was not cut, nor were you washed with water to cleanse you, nor rubbed with salt, nor wrapped in swaddling cloths.
Ezekiel 16:5 No eye pitied you, to do any of these things to you out of compassion for you, on the day that you were born.
Ezekiel 16:6 “And when I passed by you and saw you wallowing in your blood, ‘Live!’
Ezekiel 16:7  you were naked and bare.
Ezekiel 16:8 “When I passed by you again and saw you, behold, you were at the age for love, and and you became mine.
Ezekiel 16:9 Then I bathed you with water and washed off your blood from you and anointed you with oil.
Ezekiel 16:10
Ezekiel 16:11  put bracelets on your wrists and a chain on your neck.
Ezekiel 16:12 And I put a ring on your nose and earrings in your ears and a beautiful crown on your head.
Ezekiel 16:13 Thus you were adorned with gold and silver, and your clothing was of fine linen and silk and embroidered cloth. You grew exceedingly beautiful and advanced to royalty.
Ezekiel 16:14 And your renown went forth among the nations because of your beauty, for it was perfect through the splendor that I had bestowed on you, declares the Lord GOD.
Ezekiel 16:15   became his.
Ezekiel 16:16 You took some of your garments and made for yourself colorful shrines, and on them played the whore. The like has never been, nor ever shall be.
Ezekiel 16:17 You also took made for yourself images of men, and with them played the whore.
Ezekiel 16:18 And you took your embroidered garments to cover them, and set my oil and my incense before them.
Ezekiel 16:19  a pleasing aroma; and so it was, declares the Lord GOD.
Ezekiel 16:20  these you sacrificed to them to be devoured. Were your whorings so small a matter
Ezekiel 16:21 that you slaughtered my children and delivered them up as an offering by fire to them?
Ezekiel 16:22 And in all your abominations and your whorings you did not remember when you were naked and bare, wallowing in your blood.
Ezekiel 16:23 “And after all your wickedness (woe, woe to you! declares the Lord GOD),
Ezekiel 16:24 you built yourself a vaulted chamber and made yourself a lofty place in every square.
Ezekiel 16:25 At the head of every street  to any passerby and multiplying your whoring.
Ezekiel 16:26  to provoke me to anger.
Ezekiel 16:27 Behold, therefore, I stretched out my hand against you the daughters of the Philistines, who were ashamed of your lewd behavior.
Ezekiel 16:28  with the Assyrians, because you were not satisfied; yes, you played the whore with them, and still you were not satisfied.
Ezekiel 16:29 You multiplied your whoring also with the trading land of Chaldea, and even with this you were not satisfied.
Ezekiel 16:30 “How sick is your heart,  declares the Lord GOD, because you did all these things, the deeds of a brazen prostitute,
Ezekiel 16:31 building your vaulted chamber at the head of every street, and making your lofty place in every square. Yet you were not like a prostitute, because you scorned payment.
Ezekiel 16:32 Adulterous wife, who receives strangers instead of her husband!
Ezekiel 16:33 Men give gifts to all prostitutes, but you gave your gifts to all your lovers, bribing them to come to you from every side with your whorings.
Ezekiel 16:34 So you were different from other women in your whorings. No one solicited you to play the whore, and you gave payment, while no payment was given to you; therefore you were different.
Ezekiel 16:35 “Therefore, O prostitute, hear the word of the LORD:
Ezekiel 16:36 Thus says the Lord GOD, Because your lust was poured out and your nakedness uncovered in your whorings with your lovers, and with all your abominable idols, and because of the blood of your children that you gave to them,
Ezekiel 16:37 therefore, behold, they may see all your nakedness.
Ezekiel 16:38  shed blood are judged, and bring upon you the blood of wrath and jealousy.
Ezekiel 16:39 And I will give you into their hands, and they shall throw down your naked and bare.
Ezekiel 16:40  and they shall stone you and cut you to pieces with their swords.
Ezekiel 16:41  you shall also give payment no more.
Ezekiel 16:42  So will I satisfy my wrath on you, and my jealousy shall depart from you. I will be calm and will no more be angry.
Ezekiel 16:43 Because you have not remembered committed lewdness in addition to all your abominations?
Ezekiel 16:44 “Behold, everyone who uses proverbs will use this proverb about you: ‘Like mother, like daughter.’
Ezekiel 16:45 You are the daughter of your mother, who loathed her husband and her children; and you are the sister of your father an Amorite.
Ezekiel 16:46 And your younger sister, who lived to the south of you, is Sodom with her daughters.
Ezekiel 16:47  you were more corrupt than they in all your ways.
Ezekiel 16:48  Sodom and her daughters have not done as you and your daughters have done.
Ezekiel 16:49 Behold, this was the guilt of your sister Sodom: she and her daughters had pride, excess of food, and prosperous ease, but did not aid the poor and needy.
Ezekiel 16:50 They were haughty and I removed them, when I saw it.
Ezekiel 16:51  have made your sisters appear righteous by all the abominations that you have committed.
Ezekiel 16:52  Bear your disgrace, you also, for you have intervened on behalf of your sisters. Because of your sins in which you acted more abominably than they, they are more in the right than you. So be ashamed, you also, and bear your disgrace, for you have made your sisters appear righteous.
Ezekiel 16:53  “I will restore their fortunes, both the fortunes of Sodom and her daughters, and the fortunes of Samaria and her daughters, and I will restore your own fortunes in their midst,
Ezekiel 16:54 that you may bear your disgrace becoming a consolation to them.
Ezekiel 16:55 As for your sisters, Sodom and her daughters shall return to their former state, to your former state.
Ezekiel 16:56 Was not your sister Sodom a byword in your mouth in the day of your pride,
Ezekiel 16:57 before your wickedness was uncovered? Now you have become those all around who despise you.
Ezekiel 16:58  You bear the penalty of your lewdness and your abominations, declares the LORD.
Ezekiel 16:59 “For thus says the Lord GOD: I will deal with you as you have done, you who have despised the oath in breaking the covenant,
Ezekiel 16:60 yet and I will establish for you an everlasting covenant.
Ezekiel 16:61   the covenant with you.
Ezekiel 16:62 I will establish my covenant with you, and you shall know that I am the LORD,
Ezekiel 16:63 that you may remember and be confounded, and never open your mouth again because of your shame, when I atone for you for all that you have done, declares the Lord GOD.”
Ezekiel 17:1 The word of the LORD came to me:
Ezekiel 17:2  propound a riddle, and speak a parable to the house of Israel;
Ezekiel 17:3 say, Thus says the Lord GOD: and took the top of the cedar.
Ezekiel 17:4 He broke off the topmost of its young twigs and carried it to a land of trade and set it in a city of merchants.
Ezekiel 17:5 Then he took of the seed of the land He set it like a willow twig,
Ezekiel 17:6 and it sprouted and became a spreading vine, and its branches turned toward him, and its roots remained where it stood. So it became a vine and produced branches and put out boughs.
Ezekiel 17:7  the bed where it was planted, that he might water it.
Ezekiel 17:8  It had been planted on good soil by abundant waters, that it might produce branches and bear fruit and become a noble vine.
Ezekiel 17:9 “Say, Thus says the Lord GOD: Will it thrive? Will he not pull up its roots and cut off its fruit, so that it withers, so that all its fresh sprouting leaves wither? It will not take a strong arm or many people to pull it from its roots.
Ezekiel 17:10 Behold, it is planted; will it thrive? Will it not utterly wither when the east wind strikes it — wither away on the bed where it sprouted?”
Ezekiel 17:11 Then the word of the LORD came to me:
Ezekiel 17:12 “Say now to the king of Babylon came to Jerusalem, and took her king and her princes and brought them to him to Babylon.
Ezekiel 17:13 the chief men of the land he had taken away),
Ezekiel 17:14 that the kingdom might be humble and not lift itself up, and keep his covenant that it might stand.
Ezekiel 17:15  break the covenant and yet escape?
Ezekiel 17:16  who made him king, whose oath he despised, and whose covenant with him he broke, in Babylon he shall die.
Ezekiel 17:17  when mounds are cast up and siege walls built to cut off many lives.
Ezekiel 17:18 He despised the oath in breaking the covenant, and behold, he gave his hand and did all these things; he shall not escape.
Ezekiel 17:19 Therefore thus says the Lord GOD: As I live, surely it is my oath that he despised, and my covenant that he broke. I will return it upon his head.
Ezekiel 17:20  for the treachery he has committed against me.
Ezekiel 17:21 And all the pick I am the LORD; I have spoken.”
Ezekiel 17:22 Thus says the Lord GOD: I myself will plant it on a high and lofty mountain.
Ezekiel 17:23  And under it will dwell every kind of bird; in the shade of its branches birds of every sort will nest.
Ezekiel 17:24 And all the trees of the field shall know that I am the LORD; I am the LORD; I have spoken, and I will do it.”
Ezekiel 18:1 The word of the LORD came to me:
Ezekiel 18:2 “What do you ‘The fathers have eaten sour grapes, and the children's teeth are set on edge’?
Ezekiel 18:3  this proverb shall no more be used by you in Israel.
Ezekiel 18:4 Behold, all souls are mine; the soul of the father as well as the soul of the son is mine: the soul who sins shall die.
Ezekiel 18:5 “If a man is righteous and does what is just and right —
Ezekiel 18:6 if he a woman in her time of menstrual impurity,
Ezekiel 18:7  and covers the naked with a garment,
Ezekiel 18:8  executes true justice between man and man,
Ezekiel 18:9  he shall surely live, declares the Lord GOD.
Ezekiel 18:10 “If he fathers a son who is violent, a shedder of blood, who does any of these things
Ezekiel 18:11 (though he himself did none of these things), defiles his neighbor's wife,
Ezekiel 18:12 oppresses the poor and needy, commits abomination,
Ezekiel 18:13  his blood shall be upon himself.
Ezekiel 18:14 “Now suppose this man fathers a son who sees all the sins that his father has done; he sees, and does not do likewise:
Ezekiel 18:15 he does not eat upon the mountains or lift up his eyes to the idols of the house of Israel, does not defile his neighbor's wife,
Ezekiel 18:16 does not oppress anyone, and covers the naked with a garment,
Ezekiel 18:17 withholds his hand from iniquity, he shall surely live.
Ezekiel 18:18 As for his father, because he practiced extortion, robbed his brother, and did what is not good among his people, behold, he shall die for his iniquity.
Ezekiel 18:19 “Yet you say, he shall surely live.
Ezekiel 18:20  and the wickedness of the wicked shall be upon himself.
Ezekiel 18:21  he shall surely live; he shall not die.
Ezekiel 18:22  None of the transgressions that he has committed shall be remembered against him; for the righteousness that he has done he shall live.
Ezekiel 18:23  Have I any pleasure in the death of the wicked, declares the Lord GOD, and not rather that he should turn from his way and live?
Ezekiel 18:24  the treachery of which he is guilty and the sin he has committed, for them he shall die.
Ezekiel 18:25  “Yet you say, ‘The way of the Lord is not just.’ Hear now, O house of Israel: Is my way not just? Is it not your ways that are not just?
Ezekiel 18:26  When a righteous person turns away from his righteousness and does injustice, he shall die for it; for the injustice that he has done he shall die.
Ezekiel 18:27 Again, when a wicked person turns away from the wickedness he has committed and does what is just and right, he shall save his life.
Ezekiel 18:28 Because he considered and turned away from all the transgressions that he had committed, he shall surely live; he shall not die.
Ezekiel 18:29 Yet the house of Israel says, ‘The way of the Lord is not just.’ O house of Israel, are my ways not just? Is it not your ways that are not just?
Ezekiel 18:30 “Therefore
Ezekiel 18:31  Why will you die, O house of Israel?
Ezekiel 18:32  so turn, and live.”
Ezekiel 19:1 And you, take up a lamentation for the princes of Israel,
Ezekiel 19:2 and say: What was your mother? A lioness! Among lions she crouched; in the midst of young lions she reared her cubs.
Ezekiel 19:3 And she brought up one of her cubs; and he learned to catch prey; he devoured men.
Ezekiel 19:4 The nations heard about him; and they brought him with hooks to the land of Egypt.
Ezekiel 19:5 When she saw that she waited in vain, that her hope was lost, she took another of her cubs and made him a young lion.
Ezekiel 19:6 He prowled among the lions; he became a young lion, and he learned to catch prey; he devoured men,
Ezekiel 19:7 and seized  their widows. He laid waste their cities, and the land was appalled and all who were in it at the sound of his roaring.
Ezekiel 19:8 he was taken in their pit.
Ezekiel 19:9 With hooks the mountains of Israel.
Ezekiel 19:10 Your mother wasby reason of abundant water.
Ezekiel 19:11 Its strong stems became rulers' scepters; it towered aloft among the thick boughs;  it was seen in its height with the mass of its branches.
Ezekiel 19:12 But the vine was plucked up in fury, cast down to the ground; the east wind dried up its fruit; they were stripped off and withered. As for its strong stem, fire consumed it.
Ezekiel 19:13  Now it is planted in the wilderness, in a dry and thirsty land.
Ezekiel 19:14  a lamentation and has become a lamentation.
Ezekiel 20:1  and sat before me.
Ezekiel 20:2 And the word of the LORD came to me:
Ezekiel 20:3  I will not be inquired of by you.
Ezekiel 20:4  Let them know the abominations of their fathers,
Ezekiel 20:5 and say to them, Thus says the Lord GOD: I swore to them, saying, I am the LORD your God.
Ezekiel 20:6 On that day I swore to them that the most glorious of all lands.
Ezekiel 20:7 And I said to them, I am the LORD your God.’
Ezekiel 20:8  and spend my anger against them in the midst of the land of Egypt.
Ezekiel 20:9  in whose sight I made myself known to them in bringing them out of the land of Egypt.
Ezekiel 20:10  So I led them out of the land of Egypt and brought them into the wilderness.
Ezekiel 20:11  by which, if a person does them, he shall live.
Ezekiel 20:12 Moreover, I gave them that they might know that I am the LORD who sanctifies them.
Ezekiel 20:13 “Then I said I would pour out my wrath upon them in the wilderness, to make a full end of them.
Ezekiel 20:14 But I acted for the sake of my name, that it should not be profaned in the sight of the nations, in whose sight I had brought them out.
Ezekiel 20:15 Moreover, the most glorious of all lands,
Ezekiel 20:16 because they rejected my rules and did not walk in my statutes, and profaned my Sabbaths; for their heart went after their idols.
Ezekiel 20:17 Nevertheless, make a full end of them in the wilderness.
Ezekiel 20:18 “And I said to nor defile yourselves with their idols.
Ezekiel 20:19  walk in my statutes, and be careful to obey my rules,
Ezekiel 20:20 and they may be a sign between me and you, that you may know that I am the LORD your God.’
Ezekiel 20:21 “Then I said I would pour out my wrath upon them and spend my anger against them in the wilderness.
Ezekiel 20:22  that it should not be profaned in the sight of the nations, in whose sight I had brought them out.
Ezekiel 20:23  that I would scatter them among the nations and disperse them through the countries,
Ezekiel 20:24 because they had not obeyed my rules, but had rejected my statutes and profaned my Sabbaths, and their eyes were set on their fathers' idols.
Ezekiel 20:25  Moreover, I gave them statutes that were not good and rules by which they could not have life,
Ezekiel 20:26 and I defiled them through that they might know that I am the LORD.
Ezekiel 20:27 “Therefore, dealing treacherously with me.
Ezekiel 20:28 For when I had brought them into the land that the provocation of their offering; there they sent up their pleasing aromas, and there they poured out their drink offerings.
Ezekiel 20:29 (I said to them,  to this day.)
Ezekiel 20:30 “Therefore say to the house of Israel, Thus says the Lord GOD: whoring after their detestable things?
Ezekiel 20:31 When you present your gifts and As I live, declares the Lord GOD, I will not be inquired of by you.
Ezekiel 20:32  and worship wood and stone.’
Ezekiel 20:33  with wrath poured out I will be king over you.
Ezekiel 20:34  I will bring you out from the peoples and gather you out of the countries where you are scattered, with a mighty hand and an outstretched arm, and with wrath poured out.
Ezekiel 20:35  face to face.
Ezekiel 20:36  As I entered into judgment with your fathers in the wilderness of the land of Egypt, so I will enter into judgment with you, declares the Lord GOD.
Ezekiel 20:37 I will make you pass under the rod, and I will bring you into the bond of the covenant.
Ezekiel 20:38  Then you will know that I am the LORD.
Ezekiel 20:39 “As for you, O house of Israel, thus says the Lord GOD: but my holy name you shall no more profane with your gifts and your idols.
Ezekiel 20:40  There I will accept them, and there I will require your contributions and the choicest of your gifts, with all your sacred offerings.
Ezekiel 20:41 As a pleasing aroma I will accept you, when I will manifest my holiness among you in the sight of the nations.
Ezekiel 20:42  I swore to give to your fathers.
Ezekiel 20:43  and you shall loathe yourselves for all the evils that you have committed.
Ezekiel 20:44 And you shall know that I am the LORD, not according to your evil ways, nor according to your corrupt deeds, O house of Israel, declares the Lord GOD.”
Ezekiel 20:45  And the word of the LORD came to me:
Ezekiel 20:46  preach against the south, and prophesy against the forest land in the Negeb.
Ezekiel 20:47 Say to the forest of the Negeb, Hear the word of the LORD: Thus says the Lord GOD, Behold, all faces from south to north shall be scorched by it.
Ezekiel 20:48  All flesh shall see that I the LORD have kindled it; it shall not be quenched.”
Ezekiel 20:49 Then I said, ‘Is he not a maker of parables?’”
Ezekiel 21:1  The word of the LORD came to me:
Ezekiel 21:2   Prophesy against the land of Israel
Ezekiel 21:3 and say to the land of Israel, Thus says the LORD: will cut off from you both righteous and wicked.
Ezekiel 21:4 Because I will cut off from you both righteous and wicked, therefore my sword shall be drawn from its sheath against all flesh from south to north.
Ezekiel 21:5  it shall not be sheathed again.
Ezekiel 21:6 “As for you, son of man, groan before their eyes.
Ezekiel 21:7  coming, and it will be fulfilled,’” declares the Lord GOD.
Ezekiel 21:8 And the word of the LORD came to me:
Ezekiel 21:9 “A sword, a sword is sharpened and also polished,
Ezekiel 21:10
Ezekiel 21:11 So the sword is given to be polished, that it may be grasped in the hand. It is sharpened and polished to be given into the hand of the slayer.
Ezekiel 21:12  Strike therefore upon your thigh.
Ezekiel 21:13 For it will not be a testing — what could it do if you despise  declares the Lord GOD.
Ezekiel 21:14 “As for you,  the sword for those to be slain. It is the sword for the great slaughter, which surrounds them,
Ezekiel 21:15 that their hearts may melt, and many stumble.  for slaughter.
Ezekiel 21:16 Cut sharply to the right; set yourself to the left, wherever your face is directed.
Ezekiel 21:17 I also will I the LORD have spoken.”
Ezekiel 21:18 The word of the LORD came to me again:
Ezekiel 21:19 “As for you, son of man, mark two ways for at the head of the way to a city.
Ezekiel 21:20 Mark a way for the sword to come to Rabbah of the Ammonites and to Judah, into Jerusalem the fortified.
Ezekiel 21:21 For the king of Babylon stands  he looks at the liver.
Ezekiel 21:22 Into his right hand comes the divination for Jerusalem, to cast up mounds, to build siege towers.
Ezekiel 21:23 But to them it will seem like a false divination. that they may be taken.
Ezekiel 21:24 “Therefore thus says the Lord GOD: Because you have made your guilt to be remembered, in that your transgressions are uncovered, so that in all your deeds your sins appear — because you have come to remembrance, you shall be taken in hand.
Ezekiel 21:25 And you, O profane the time of your final punishment,
Ezekiel 21:26 thus says the Lord GOD: Remove the turban and take off the crown. Things shall not remain as they are. Exalt that which is low, and bring low that which is exalted.
Ezekiel 21:27 A ruin, ruin, ruin I will make it. until he comes, the one to whom judgment belongs, and I will give it to him.
Ezekiel 21:28 “And you, It is polished to consume and to flash like lightning —
Ezekiel 21:29 while whose day has come, the time of their final punishment.
Ezekiel 21:30  I will judge you.
Ezekiel 21:31 And brutish men, skillful to destroy.
Ezekiel 21:32 You shall be fuel for the fire. Your blood shall be in the midst of the land. for I the LORD have spoken.”
Ezekiel 22:1 And the word of the LORD came to me, saying,
Ezekiel 22:2 “And you, Then declare to her all her abominations.
Ezekiel 22:3 You shall say, Thus says the Lord GOD: A city that sheds blood in her midst, so that her time may come, and that makes idols to defile herself!
Ezekiel 22:4 You have become guilty Therefore I have made you a reproach to the nations, and a mockery to all the countries.
Ezekiel 22:5 Those who are near and those who are far from you will mock you; you are full of tumult.
Ezekiel 22:6 “Behold, the princes of Israel in you, every one according to his power, have been bent on shedding blood.
Ezekiel 22:7 Father and mother are wronged in you.
Ezekiel 22:8  profaned my Sabbaths.
Ezekiel 22:9  they commit lewdness in your midst.
Ezekiel 22:10 In you men uncover their fathers' nakedness; in you they violate women who are unclean in their menstrual impurity.
Ezekiel 22:11  another in you violates his sister, his father's daughter.
Ezekiel 22:12 In you me you have forgotten, declares the Lord GOD.
Ezekiel 22:13 “Behold, the blood that has been in your midst.
Ezekiel 22:14  I the LORD have spoken, and I will do it.
Ezekiel 22:15  I will consume your uncleanness out of you.
Ezekiel 22:16 And and you shall know that I am the LORD.”
Ezekiel 22:17 And the word of the LORD came to me:
Ezekiel 22:18  dross of silver.
Ezekiel 22:19 Therefore thus says the Lord GOD: Because you have all become dross, therefore, behold, I will gather you into the midst of Jerusalem.
Ezekiel 22:20 As one gathers silver and bronze and iron and lead and tin into a furnace, in my anger and in my wrath, and I will put you in and melt you.
Ezekiel 22:21 I will gather you and blow on you with the fire of my wrath, and you shall be melted in the midst of it.
Ezekiel 22:22 As silver is melted in a furnace, so you shall be melted in the midst of it, and you shall know that I am the LORD; I have poured out my wrath upon you.”
Ezekiel 22:23 And the word of the LORD came to me:
Ezekiel 22:24 “Son of man, say to her, You are a land that is or rained upon in the day of indignation.
Ezekiel 22:25  tearing the prey; they have devoured human lives; they have taken treasure and precious things; they have made many widows in her midst.
Ezekiel 22:26  so that I am profaned among them.
Ezekiel 22:27  shedding blood, destroying lives to get dishonest gain.
Ezekiel 22:28 And seeing false visions and divining lies for them, saying, ‘Thus says the Lord GOD,’ when the LORD has not spoken.
Ezekiel 22:29 The people of the land have extorted from the sojourner without justice.
Ezekiel 22:30  and stand in the breach before me for the land, that I should not destroy it, but I found none.
Ezekiel 22:31 Therefore their way upon their heads, declares the Lord GOD.”
Ezekiel 23:1 The word of the LORD came to me:
Ezekiel 23:2  two women, the daughters of one mother.
Ezekiel 23:3   handled.
Ezekiel 23:4 Oholah was the name of the elder and Oholibah the name of her sister. Samaria, and Oholibah is Jerusalem.
Ezekiel 23:5 “Oholah played the whore the Assyrians, warriors
Ezekiel 23:6 clothed in purple, horsemen riding on horses.
Ezekiel 23:7 She bestowed her whoring upon them, the choicest men of Assyria all of them, and she defiled herself with all the idols of everyone after whom she lusted.
Ezekiel 23:8 She did not give up her whoring that she had begun in Egypt; for in her youth men had lain with her and handled her virgin bosom and poured out their whoring lust upon her.
Ezekiel 23:9 Therefore I delivered her into the hands of her lovers, into the hands of the Assyrians, after whom she lusted.
Ezekiel 23:10  when judgment had been executed on her.
Ezekiel 23:11   in her lust and in her whoring, which was worse than that of her sister.
Ezekiel 23:12 She lusted after the Assyrians, governors and commanders, warriors clothed in full armor, horsemen riding on horses, all of them desirable young men.
Ezekiel 23:13 And I saw that she was defiled; they both took the same way.
Ezekiel 23:14 But she carried her whoring further. She saw men the Chaldeans portrayed in vermilion,
Ezekiel 23:15 wearing belts on their waists, with flowing turbans on their heads, all of them having the appearance of officers, a likeness of Babylonians whose native land was Chaldea.
Ezekiel 23:16 When she saw them, she lusted after them and in Chaldea.
Ezekiel 23:17 And the Babylonians came to her she turned from them in disgust.
Ezekiel 23:18 When she carried on her whoring so openly and flaunted her nakedness, I turned in disgust from her, as I had turned in disgust from her sister.
Ezekiel 23:19 Yet she increased her whoring, remembering the days of her youth, when she played the whore in the land of Egypt
Ezekiel 23:20 and lusted after her lovers there, whose members were like those of donkeys, and whose issue was like that of horses.
Ezekiel 23:21 Thus you longed for the lewdness of your youth, when the Egyptians handled your bosom and pressed  your young breasts.”
Ezekiel 23:22 Therefore, O Oholibah, thus says the Lord GOD: “Behold, I will stir up against you your lovers and I will bring them against you from every side:
Ezekiel 23:23 the Babylonians and all the Chaldeans, governors and commanders all of them, officers and men of renown, all of them riding on horses.
Ezekiel 23:24 And they shall come against you from the north they shall judge you according to their judgments.
Ezekiel 23:25 And I will direct my jealousy against you, They shall seize your sons and your daughters, and your survivors shall be devoured by fire.
Ezekiel 23:26  They shall also strip you of your clothes and take away your beautiful jewels.
Ezekiel 23:27  your whoring begun in the land of Egypt, so that you shall not lift up your eyes to them or remember Egypt anymore.
Ezekiel 23:28 “For thus says the Lord GOD: into the hands of those from whom you turned in disgust,
Ezekiel 23:29 and the nakedness of your whoring shall be uncovered. Your lewdness and your whoring
Ezekiel 23:30 have brought this upon you, because you played the whore with the nations and defiled yourself with their idols.
Ezekiel 23:31 You have gone the way of your sister; her cup into your hand.
Ezekiel 23:32 Thus says the Lord GOD: “You shall drink your sister's cup that is deep and large; you shall be laughed at and held in derision, for it contains much;
Ezekiel 23:33 you will be filled with your sister Samaria;
Ezekiel 23:34  you shall drink it and drain it out, and gnaw its shards, and tear your breasts;  for I have spoken, declares the Lord GOD.
Ezekiel 23:35 Therefore thus says the Lord GOD: Because must bear the consequences of your lewdness and whoring.”
Ezekiel 23:36 The LORD said to me: will you judge Oholah and Oholibah? Declare to them their abominations.
Ezekiel 23:37 For  to them for food the children whom they had borne to me.
Ezekiel 23:38 Moreover, this they have done to me: profaned my Sabbaths.
Ezekiel 23:39 For when this is what they did in my house.
Ezekiel 23:40 They even sent for men to come from afar, and adorned yourself with ornaments.
Ezekiel 23:41 You sat on my oil.
Ezekiel 23:42 The beautiful crowns on their heads.
Ezekiel 23:43 “Then I said of her who was worn out by adultery, ‘Now they will continue to use her for a whore, even her!’
Ezekiel 23:44 For they have gone in to her, as men go in to a prostitute. Thus they went in to Oholah and to Oholibah, lewd women!
Ezekiel 23:45 But righteous men shall pass judgment on them with the sentence of adulteresses, and with the sentence of women who shed blood, because they are adulteresses, and blood is on their hands.”
Ezekiel 23:46 For thus says the Lord GOD: a plunder.
Ezekiel 23:47  burn up their houses.
Ezekiel 23:48  Thus will I put an end to lewdness in the land, that all women may take warning and not commit lewdness as you have done.
Ezekiel 23:49 And they shall return your lewdness upon you, and you shall know that I am the Lord GOD.”
Ezekiel 24:1  In the ninth year, in the tenth month, on the tenth day of the month, the word of the LORD came to me:
Ezekiel 24:2  “Son of man, write down the name of this day, this very day. The king of Babylon has laid siege to Jerusalem this very day.
Ezekiel 24:3 And the pot, set it on; pour in water also;
Ezekiel 24:4 put in it the pieces of meat, all the good pieces, the thigh and the shoulder; fill it with choice bones.
Ezekiel 24:5 Take the choicest one of the flock; pile the logs  under it; boil it well; seethe also its bones in it.
Ezekiel 24:6 “Therefore thus says the Lord GOD:
Ezekiel 24:7 For the blood she has shed is in her midst; she put it on she did not pour it out on the ground to cover it with dust.
Ezekiel 24:8 To rouse my wrath, to take vengeance, I have set on the bare rock the blood she has shed, that it may not be covered.
Ezekiel 24:9 Therefore thus says the Lord GOD: Woe to the bloody city! I also will make the pile great.
Ezekiel 24:10 Heap on the logs, kindle the fire, boil the meat well, mix in the spices,  and let the bones be burned up.
Ezekiel 24:11 Then set it empty upon the coals, that it may become hot, and its copper may burn, that its uncleanness may be melted in it, its corrosion consumed.
Ezekiel 24:12   its abundant corrosion does not go out of it. Into the fire with its corrosion!
Ezekiel 24:13 On account of your unclean lewdness, because I would have cleansed you and you were not cleansed from your uncleanness, I have satisfied my fury upon you.
Ezekiel 24:14  according to your ways and your deeds you will be judged, declares the Lord GOD.”
Ezekiel 24:15 The word of the LORD came to me:
Ezekiel 24:16  “Son of man, behold, I am about to take the delight of your eyes away from you at a stroke; yet you shall not mourn or weep, nor shall your tears run down.
Ezekiel 24:17 Sigh, but not aloud; make no mourning for the dead. nor eat the bread of men.”
Ezekiel 24:18 So I spoke to the people in the morning, and as I was commanded.
Ezekiel 24:19 And the people said to me, “Will you not tell us what these things mean for us, that you are acting thus?”
Ezekiel 24:20 Then I said to them, “The word of the LORD came to me:
Ezekiel 24:21 ‘Say to the house of Israel, Thus says the Lord GOD: your sons and your daughters whom you left behind shall fall by the sword.
Ezekiel 24:22 And nor eat the bread of men.
Ezekiel 24:23  you shall rot away in your iniquities and groan to one another.
Ezekiel 24:24 Thus shall Ezekiel be to you you will know that I am the Lord GOD.’
Ezekiel 24:25 “As for you, their stronghold, their joy and glory, the delight of their eyes and their soul's desire, and also their sons and daughters,
Ezekiel 24:26  on that day a fugitive will come to you to report to you the news.
Ezekiel 24:27 On that day your mouth they will know that I am the LORD.”
Ezekiel 25:1 The word of the LORD came to me:
Ezekiel 25:2  the Ammonites and prophesy against them.
Ezekiel 25:3 Say to the Ammonites, Hear the word of the Lord GOD: sanctuary when it was profaned, and over the land of Israel when it was made desolate, and over the house of Judah when they went into exile,
Ezekiel 25:4 therefore behold, I am handing you over to the people of the East for a possession, and they shall set their encampments among you and make their dwellings in your midst. They shall eat your fruit, and they shall drink your milk.
Ezekiel 25:5 I will make Then you will know that I am the LORD.
Ezekiel 25:6 For thus says the Lord GOD: Because malice within your soul against the land of Israel,
Ezekiel 25:7 therefore, behold, will hand you over as plunder to the nations. And I will cut you off from the peoples and will make you perish out of the countries; I will destroy you. Then you will know that I am the LORD.
Ezekiel 25:8 “Thus says the Lord GOD: Because house of Judah is like all the other nations,’
Ezekiel 25:9 therefore Kiriathaim.
Ezekiel 25:10 I will give it that the Ammonites may be remembered no more among the nations,
Ezekiel 25:11  Then they will know that I am the LORD.
Ezekiel 25:12 “Thus says the Lord GOD: Because in taking vengeance on them,
Ezekiel 25:13 therefore thus says the Lord GOD, Dedan they shall fall by the sword.
Ezekiel 25:14 And I will lay my vengeance upon Edom they shall know my vengeance, declares the Lord GOD.
Ezekiel 25:15 “Thus says the Lord GOD: Because with malice of soul to destroy in never-ending enmity,
Ezekiel 25:16 therefore thus says the Lord GOD, the Cherethites and destroy the rest of the seacoast.
Ezekiel 25:17 I will execute great vengeance on them Then they will know that I am the LORD, when I lay my vengeance upon them.”
Ezekiel 26:1  In the eleventh year, on the first day of the month, the word of the LORD came to me:
Ezekiel 26:2  ‘Aha, the gate of the peoples is broken; it has swung open to me. I shall be replenished, now that she is laid waste,’
Ezekiel 26:3 therefore thus says the Lord GOD: as the sea brings up its waves.
Ezekiel 26:4 They shall destroy the walls of Tyre and break down her towers, and I will scrape her soil from her and make her a bare rock.
Ezekiel 26:5 She for I have spoken, declares the Lord GOD. And she shall become plunder for the nations,
Ezekiel 26:6 and her daughters on the mainland shall be killed by the sword. Then they will know that I am the LORD.
Ezekiel 26:7 “For thus says the Lord GOD: king of kings, with horses and chariots, and with horsemen and a host of many soldiers.
Ezekiel 26:8 He will kill with the sword a roof of shields against you.
Ezekiel 26:9  He will direct the shock of his battering rams against your walls, and with his axes he will break down your towers.
Ezekiel 26:10 His horses will be so many that their dust will cover you. Your walls will shake at the noise of the horsemen and wagons and chariots, when he enters your gates as men enter a city that has been breached.
Ezekiel 26:11 With the hoofs of his horses he will trample all your streets. He will kill your people with the sword, and your mighty pillars will fall to the ground.
Ezekiel 26:12 They will plunder soil they will cast into the midst of the waters.
Ezekiel 26:13  the sound of your lyres shall be heard no more.
Ezekiel 26:14  for I am the LORD; I have spoken, declares the Lord GOD.
Ezekiel 26:15 “Thus says the Lord GOD to Tyre: Will not when the wounded groan, when slaughter is made in your midst?
Ezekiel 26:16 Then all be appalled at you.
Ezekiel 26:17 And they will imposed their terror on all her inhabitants!
Ezekiel 26:18 Now the coastlands tremble on the day of your fall, and the coastlands that are on the sea are dismayed at your passing.’
Ezekiel 26:19 “For thus says the Lord GOD: When I make you a city laid waste, like the cities that are not inhabited, when I bring up the deep over you, and the great waters cover you,
Ezekiel 26:20 then in the land of the living.
Ezekiel 26:21 I will bring you Though you be sought for, you will never be found again, declares the Lord GOD.”
Ezekiel 27:1 The word of the LORD came to me:
Ezekiel 27:2 “Now you, raise a lamentation over Tyre,
Ezekiel 27:3 and say to Tyre, who dwells at perfect in beauty.’
Ezekiel 27:4 Your borders are in the heart of the seas; your builders made perfect your beauty.
Ezekiel 27:5 They made all your planks of fir trees from a cedar from Lebanon to make a mast for you.
Ezekiel 27:6 Of the coasts of Cyprus, inlaid with ivory.
Ezekiel 27:7  the coasts of Elishah was your awning.
Ezekiel 27:8 The inhabitants of Sidon and your pilots.
Ezekiel 27:9 The elders ofcaulking your seams; all the ships of the sea with their mariners were in you to barter for your wares.
Ezekiel 27:10  They hung the shield and helmet in you; they gave you splendor.
Ezekiel 27:11 Men of perfect your beauty.
Ezekiel 27:12  wares.
Ezekiel 27:13  Meshech traded with you; they exchanged human beings and vessels of bronze for your merchandise.
Ezekiel 27:14 From for your wares.
Ezekiel 27:15 The men of  traded with you. Many coastlands were your own special markets; they brought you in payment ivory tusks and ebony.
Ezekiel 27:16 Syria ruby.
Ezekiel 27:17 Judah and the land of Israel traded with you; they exchanged for your merchandise balm.
Ezekiel 27:18  wool of Sahar
Ezekiel 27:19 and casks of wine calamus were bartered for your merchandise.
Ezekiel 27:20 Dedan traded with you in saddlecloths for riding.
Ezekiel 27:21 Arabia and all the princes of in lambs, rams, and goats; in these they did business with you.
Ezekiel 27:22 The traders of the best of all kinds of spices and all precious stones and gold.
Ezekiel 27:23  Asshur, and Chilmad traded with you.
Ezekiel 27:24 In your market these traded with you in choice garments, in clothes of embroidered work, and in carpets of colored material, bound with cords and made secure.
Ezekiel 27:25  in the heart of the seas.
Ezekiel 27:26 “Your rowers have brought you out into the high seas. The east wind has wrecked you in the heart of the seas.
Ezekiel 27:27 Your riches, your wares, your merchandise, your mariners andon the day of your fall.
Ezekiel 27:28 At the sound of the cry of your pilots the countryside shakes,
Ezekiel 27:29 and down from their ships come all who handle the oar. The mariners and all the pilots of the sea stand on the land
Ezekiel 27:30 and wallow in ashes;
Ezekiel 27:31 they make themselves bald for you and put sackcloth on their waist, and they weep over you in bitterness of soul, with bitter mourning.
Ezekiel 27:32 In their wailing they‘Who is like Tyre, like one destroyed in the midst of the sea?
Ezekiel 27:33 When your wares came from the seas, you enriched the kings of the earth.
Ezekiel 27:34 Now you are wrecked by the seas, in the depths of the waters; your merchandise and all your crew in your midst have sunk with you.
Ezekiel 27:35  the hair of their kings bristles with horror; their faces are convulsed.
Ezekiel 27:36 you have come to a dreadful end and shall be no more forever.’”
Ezekiel 28:1 The word of the LORD came to me:
Ezekiel 28:2 though you make your heart like the heart of a god —
Ezekiel 28:3  Daniel; no secret is hidden from you;
Ezekiel 28:4 by your wisdom and your understanding you have made wealth for yourself, and have gathered gold and silver into your treasuries;
Ezekiel 28:5 by your great wisdom in your trade you have increased your wealth, and your heart has become proud in your wealth —
Ezekiel 28:6 therefore thus says the Lord GOD: Because you make your heart like the heart of a god,
Ezekiel 28:7 therefore, behold, I will bring your splendor.
Ezekiel 28:8 and you shall die the death of the slain in the heart of the seas.
Ezekiel 28:9  you are but a man, and no god, in the hands of those who slay you?
Ezekiel 28:10 for I have spoken, declares the Lord GOD.”
Ezekiel 28:11 Moreover, the word of the LORD came to me:
Ezekiel 28:12  perfect in beauty.
Ezekiel 28:13 You were inOn the day that you were created they were prepared.
Ezekiel 28:14 You were an anointed the holy mountain of God; in the midst of the stones of fire you walked.
Ezekiel 28:15 You were blameless in your ways from the day you were created, till unrighteousness was found in you.
Ezekiel 28:16 In the abundance of O guardian cherub, from the midst of the stones of fire.
Ezekiel 28:17  your beauty; you corrupted your wisdom for the sake of your splendor. I cast you to the ground; I exposed you before kings, to feast their eyes on you.
Ezekiel 28:18 By the multitude of your iniquities, in the unrighteousness of your trade you profaned your sanctuaries; soin the sight of all who saw you.
Ezekiel 28:19 All who know you among the peoples are appalled at you; you have come to a dreadful end and shall be no more forever.”
Ezekiel 28:20 The word of the LORD came to me:
Ezekiel 28:21  prophesy against her
Ezekiel 28:22 and say, Thus says the Lord GOD: “Behold, manifest my holiness in her;
Ezekiel 28:23 for I will send pestilence into her, and blood into her streets; and the slain shall fall in her midst, by the sword that is against her on every side. Then they will know that I am the LORD.
Ezekiel 28:24 “And for the house of Israel who have treated them with contempt. Then they will know that I am the Lord GOD.
Ezekiel 28:25 “Thus says the Lord GOD: then they shall dwell in their own land that I gave to my servant Jacob.
Ezekiel 28:26  Then they will know that I am the LORD their God.”
Ezekiel 29:1  In the tenth year, in the tenth month, on the twelfth day of the month, the word of the LORD came to me:
Ezekiel 29:2  against all Egypt;
Ezekiel 29:3 speak, and say, Thus says the Lord GOD: that says, ‘My Nile is my own; I made it for myself.’
Ezekiel 29:4 I will put hooks in your jaws, and make the fish of your streams stick to your scales; and I will draw you up out of the midst of your streams, with all the fish of your streams that stick to your scales.
Ezekiel 29:5 I give you as food.
Ezekiel 29:6 Then all the inhabitants of Egypt a staff of reed to the house of Israel,
Ezekiel 29:7
Ezekiel 29:8 Therefore thus says the Lord GOD: Behold, I will bring a sword upon you, and will cut off from you man and beast,
Ezekiel 29:9 and the land of Egypt shall be a desolation and a waste.  said, ‘The Nile is mine, and I made it,’
Ezekiel 29:10 therefore, from Migdol to Syene, as far as the border of Cush.
Ezekiel 29:11  No foot of man shall pass through it, and no foot of beast shall pass through it; it shall be uninhabited forty years.
Ezekiel 29:12  I will scatter the Egyptians among the nations, and disperse them through the countries.
Ezekiel 29:13 “For thus says the Lord GOD: At the end of forty years I will gather the Egyptians from the peoples among whom they were scattered,
Ezekiel 29:14 and the land of Pathros, the land of their origin, and there they shall be a lowly kingdom.
Ezekiel 29:15 It shall be the most lowly of the kingdoms, and never again exalt itself above the nations. And I will make them so small that they will never again rule over the nations.
Ezekiel 29:16 And it shall never again be Then they will know that I am the Lord GOD.”
Ezekiel 29:17  In the twenty-seventh year, in the first month, on the first day of the month, the word of the LORD came to me:
Ezekiel 29:18  Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon made his army labor hard against Tyre. Every head was made bald, and every shoulder was rubbed bare, yet neither he nor his army got anything from Tyre to pay for the labor that he had performed against her.
Ezekiel 29:19 Therefore thus says the Lord GOD: and despoil it and plunder it; and it shall be the wages for his army.
Ezekiel 29:20  I have given him the land of Egypt as his payment for which he labored, because they worked for me, declares the Lord GOD.
Ezekiel 29:21 “On that day Then they will know that I am the LORD.”
Ezekiel 30:1 The word of the LORD came to me:
Ezekiel 30:2 “Wail, ‘Alas for the day!’
Ezekiel 30:3   the nations.
Ezekiel 30:4  her foundations are torn down.
Ezekiel 30:5   shall fall with them by the sword.
Ezekiel 30:6 “Thus says the LORD: from Migdol to Syene they shall fall within her by the sword, declares the Lord GOD.
Ezekiel 30:7  And they shall be desolated in the midst of desolated countries, and their cities shall be in the midst of cities that are laid waste.
Ezekiel 30:8  all her helpers are broken.
Ezekiel 30:9 “On that day  for, behold, it comes!
Ezekiel 30:10 “Thus says the Lord GOD: “I will put an end to the wealth of Egypt, by the hand of Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon.
Ezekiel 30:11 He and his people with him,and they shall draw their swords against Egypt and fill the land with the slain.
Ezekiel 30:12 AndI am the LORD; I have spoken.
Ezekiel 30:13 “Thus says the Lord GOD:  I will put fear in the land of Egypt.
Ezekiel 30:14 I will make Thebes.
Ezekiel 30:15 And I will pour out my wrath on Pelusium, the stronghold of Egypt, and cut off the multitude  of Thebes.
Ezekiel 30:16 And I will set fire to Egypt; Pelusium shall be in great agony; Thebes shall be breached, and  by day.
Ezekiel 30:17 The young men of On and of Pi-beseth shall fall by the sword, and the women  shall go into captivity.
Ezekiel 30:18 At her proud might shall come to an end in her; she shall be covered by a cloud, and her daughters shall go into captivity.
Ezekiel 30:19 ThusThen they will know that I am the LORD.”
Ezekiel 30:20  In the eleventh year, in the first month, on the seventh day of the month, the word of the LORD came to me:
Ezekiel 30:21  it has not been bound up, to heal it by binding it with a bandage, so that it may become strong to wield the sword.
Ezekiel 30:22 Therefore thus says the Lord GOD: Behold, I am against Pharaoh king of Egypt and will break his arms, both the strong arm and the one that was broken, and I will make the sword fall from his hand.
Ezekiel 30:23  I will scatter the Egyptians among the nations and disperse them through the countries.
Ezekiel 30:24 And like a man mortally wounded.
Ezekiel 30:25 I will strengthen the arms of the king of Babylon, but the arms of Pharaoh shall fall. when I put my sword into the hand of the king of Babylon and he stretches it out against the land of Egypt.
Ezekiel 30:26 And I will scatter the Egyptians among the nations and disperse them throughout the countries. Then they will know that I am the LORD.”
Ezekiel 31:1  In the eleventh year, in the third month, on the first day of the month, the word of the LORD came to me:
Ezekiel 31:2 “Whom are you like in your greatness?
Ezekiel 31:3 Behold,
Ezekiel 31:4 The waters nourished it; the deep made it grow tall, making its rivers flow around the place of its planting, sending forth its streams to all the trees of the field.
Ezekiel 31:5 So abundant water in its shoots.
Ezekiel 31:6  All the birds of the heavens made their nests in its boughs; under its branches all the beasts of the field gave birth to their young, and under its shadow lived all great nations.
Ezekiel 31:7 It wasfor its roots went down to abundant waters.
Ezekiel 31:8  in the garden of God was its equal in beauty.
Ezekiel 31:9 I made it beautiful in the mass of its branches, and all the trees of Eden envied it, that were in the garden of God.
Ezekiel 31:10 “Therefore thus says the Lord GOD: Because its heart was proud of its height,
Ezekiel 31:11 I will give it into the hand of a mighty one of the nations. He shall surely deal with it as its wickedness deserves. I have cast it out.
Ezekiel 31:12  all the peoples of the earth have gone away from its shadow and left it.
Ezekiel 31:13  On its fallen trunk dwell all the birds of the heavens, and on its branches are all the beasts of the field.
Ezekiel 31:14   with those who go down to the pit.
Ezekiel 31:15 “Thus says the Lord GOD: On the day  went down to Sheol I caused mourning; I closed the deep over it, and restrained its rivers, and many waters were stopped. I clothed Lebanon in gloom for it, and all the trees of the field fainted because of it.
Ezekiel 31:16  were comforted in the world below.
Ezekiel 31:17 They also went down to Sheol with it, who lived under its shadow among the nations.
Ezekiel 31:18 “This is Pharaoh and all his multitude, declares the Lord GOD.”
Ezekiel 32:1  In the twelfth year, in the twelfth month, on the first day of the month, the word of the LORD came to me:
Ezekiel 32:2 you burst forth in your rivers, trouble the waters with your feet, and foul their rivers.
Ezekiel 32:3 Thus says the Lord GOD:  they will haul you up in my dragnet.
Ezekiel 32:4 And I will cast you on the ground; on the open field I will fling you, and will cause all the birds of the heavens to settle on you, and I will gorge the beasts of the whole earth with you.
Ezekiel 32:5 I will strew your flesh
Ezekiel 32:6 I will drench the land even to the mountains with your flowing blood, and the ravines will be full of you.
Ezekiel 32:7  I will cover the heavens and make their stars dark; I will cover the sun with a cloud, and the moon shall not give its light.
Ezekiel 32:8 All the bright lights of heaven will I make dark over you, and put darkness on your land, declares the Lord GOD.
Ezekiel 32:9 “I will trouble the hearts of many peoples, when I bring your destruction among the nations, into the countries that you have not known.
Ezekiel 32:10  They shall tremble every moment, every one for his own life, on the day of your downfall.
Ezekiel 32:11 “For thus says the Lord GOD: The sword of the king of Babylon shall come upon you.
Ezekiel 32:12 I will cause  shall perish.
Ezekiel 32:13 I will destroy all its beasts from beside many waters; and no foot of man shall trouble them anymore, nor shall the hoofs of beasts trouble them.
Ezekiel 32:14 Then I will make their waters clear, and cause their rivers to run like oil, declares the Lord GOD.
Ezekiel 32:15 When I make the land of Egypt desolate, and when the land they will know that I am the LORD.
Ezekiel 32:16  all her multitude, shall they chant it, declares the Lord GOD.”
Ezekiel 32:17   on the fifteenth day of the month, the word of the LORD came to me:
Ezekiel 32:18  to the world below, to those who have gone down to the pit:
Ezekiel 32:19  be laid to rest with the uncircumcised.’
Ezekiel 32:20 They shall fall amid those all her multitudes.
Ezekiel 32:21 The mighty chiefs slain by the sword.’
Ezekiel 32:22  its graves all around it, all of them slain, fallen by the sword,
Ezekiel 32:23 whose graves are set in in the land of the living.
Ezekiel 32:24  with those who go down to the pit.
Ezekiel 32:25  her graves all around it, all of them uncircumcised, slain by the sword; for terror of them was spread in the land of the living, and they bear their shame with those who go down to the pit; they are placed among the slain.
Ezekiel 32:26  her graves all around it, all of them uncircumcised, slain by the sword; for they spread their terror in the land of the living.
Ezekiel 32:27 And they do not lie with the mighty, the fallen from among the uncircumcised, who went down to Sheol with their weapons of war, whose swords were laid under their heads, and whose iniquities are upon their bones; for the terror of the mighty men was in the land of the living.
Ezekiel 32:28 But as for you, you shall be broken and lie among the uncircumcised, with those who are slain by the sword.
Ezekiel 32:29  there, her kings and all her princes, who for all their might are laid with those who are killed by the sword; they lie with the uncircumcised, with those who go down to the pit.
Ezekiel 32:30 “The princes bear their shame with those who go down to the pit.
Ezekiel 32:31 “When Pharaoh sees them, he all his multitude, Pharaoh and all his army, slain by the sword, declares the Lord GOD.
Ezekiel 32:32  the uncircumcised, with those who are slain by the sword, Pharaoh and all his multitude, declares the Lord GOD.”
Ezekiel 33:1 The word of the LORD came to me:
Ezekiel 33:2  watchman,
Ezekiel 33:3 and if he sees the sword coming upon the land and blows the trumpet and warns the people,
Ezekiel 33:4 then if anyone who hears the sound of the trumpet does not take warning, and the sword comes and takes him away, his blood shall be upon his own head.
Ezekiel 33:5  He heard the sound of the trumpet and did not take warning; his blood shall be upon himself. But if he had taken warning, he would have saved his life.
Ezekiel 33:6  that person is taken away in his iniquity, but his blood I will require at the watchman's hand.
Ezekiel 33:7  Whenever you hear a word from my mouth, you shall give them warning from me.
Ezekiel 33:8  that wicked person shall die in his iniquity, but his blood I will require at your hand.
Ezekiel 33:9  but you will have delivered your soul.
Ezekiel 33:10 “And you, How then can we live?’
Ezekiel 33:11 Say to them, for why will you die, O house of Israel?
Ezekiel 33:12   when he sins.
Ezekiel 33:13 Though I say to the righteous that he shall surely live, yet if he trusts in his righteousness and does injustice, none of his righteous deeds shall be remembered, but in his injustice that he has done he shall die.
Ezekiel 33:14 Again, if he turns from his sin and does what is just and right,
Ezekiel 33:15 if the wicked in the statutes of life, not doing injustice, he shall surely live; he shall not die.
Ezekiel 33:16  None of the sins that he has committed shall be remembered against him. He has done what is just and right; he shall surely live.
Ezekiel 33:17 “Yet ‘The way of the Lord is not just,’ when it is their own way that is not just.
Ezekiel 33:18  When the righteous turns from his righteousness and does injustice, he shall die for it.
Ezekiel 33:19 And when the wicked turns from his wickedness and does what is just and right, he shall live by this.
Ezekiel 33:20 Yet you say, ‘The way of the Lord is not just.’ O house of Israel, I will judge each of you according to his ways.”
Ezekiel 33:21 In the “The city has been struck down.”
Ezekiel 33:22  the hand of the LORD had been upon me the evening before the fugitive came; and he had opened my mouth by the time the man came to me in the morning, so my mouth was opened, and I was no longer mute.
Ezekiel 33:23 The word of the LORD came to me:
Ezekiel 33:24  we are many; the land is surely given us to possess.’
Ezekiel 33:25 Therefore say to them, Thus says the Lord GOD: shed blood; shall you then possess the land?
Ezekiel 33:26  each of you defiles his neighbor's wife; shall you then possess the land?
Ezekiel 33:27 Say this to them, Thus says the Lord GOD: pestilence.
Ezekiel 33:28  the mountains of Israel shall be so desolate that none will pass through.
Ezekiel 33:29  Then they will know that I am the LORD, when I have made the land a desolation and a waste because of all their abominations that they have committed.
Ezekiel 33:30 “As for you, your people who talk together about you by the walls and at the doors of the houses, say to one another, each to his brother, ‘Come, and hear what the word is that comes from the LORD.’
Ezekiel 33:31  with lustful talk in their mouths they act; their heart is set on their gain.
Ezekiel 33:32 And behold, you are to them like one who sings lustful songs with a beautiful voice and they hear what you say, but they will not do it.
Ezekiel 33:33  then they will know that a prophet has been among them.”
Ezekiel 34:1 The word of the LORD came to me:
Ezekiel 34:2  Should not shepherds feed the sheep?
Ezekiel 34:3  you slaughter the fat ones, but you do not feed the sheep.
Ezekiel 34:4  harshness you have ruled them.
Ezekiel 34:5  they became food for all the wild beasts. My sheep were scattered;
Ezekiel 34:6 they wandered over all the mountains and on every high hill. My sheep were scattered over all the face of the earth, with none to search or seek for them.
Ezekiel 34:7 “Therefore, you shepherds, hear the word of the LORD:
Ezekiel 34:8  my sheep have become a prey, and my sheep have become food for all the wild beasts, since there was no shepherd, and because my shepherds have not searched for my sheep, but the shepherds have fed themselves, and have not fed my sheep,
Ezekiel 34:9 therefore, you shepherds, hear the word of the LORD:
Ezekiel 34:10 Thus says the Lord GOD, I will rescue my sheep from their mouths, that they may not be food for them.
Ezekiel 34:11 “For thus says the Lord GOD: myself will search for my sheep and will seek them out.
Ezekiel 34:12 As a shepherd seeks out his flock when he is among his sheep that have been scattered, so will I seek out my sheep, and I will rescue them from all places where they have been scattered on thick darkness.
Ezekiel 34:13 And I will bring them out from the peoples the mountains of Israel, by the ravines, and in all the inhabited places of the country.
Ezekiel 34:14  There they shall lie down in good grazing land, and on rich pasture they shall feed on the mountains of Israel.
Ezekiel 34:15  and I myself will make them lie down, declares the Lord GOD.
Ezekiel 34:16   I will feed them in justice.
Ezekiel 34:17 “As for you, my flock, thus says the Lord GOD: male goats.
Ezekiel 34:18 Is it not enough for you to feed on the good pasture, that you must tread down with your feet the rest of your pasture; and to drink of clear water, that you must muddy the rest of the water with your feet?
Ezekiel 34:19 And must my sheep eat what you have trodden with your feet, and drink what you have muddied with your feet?
Ezekiel 34:20 “Therefore, thus says the Lord GOD to them: Behold, I, I myself will judge between the fat sheep and the lean sheep.
Ezekiel 34:21 Because you push with side and shoulder, and weak with your horns, till you have scattered them abroad,
Ezekiel 34:22 I will rescue they shall no longer be a prey. And I will judge between sheep and sheep.
Ezekiel 34:23 And my servant David, and he shall feed them: he shall feed them and be their shepherd.
Ezekiel 34:24 And I am the LORD; I have spoken.
Ezekiel 34:25  so that they may dwell securely in the wilderness and sleep in the woods.
Ezekiel 34:26 And I will make them and the places all around my hill showers of blessing.
Ezekiel 34:27  deliver them from the hand of those who enslaved them.
Ezekiel 34:28  They shall dwell securely, and none shall make them afraid.
Ezekiel 34:29 And I will provide for them suffer the reproach of the nations.
Ezekiel 34:30 And they shall know that I am the LORD their God with them, and that they, the house of Israel, are my people, declares the Lord GOD.
Ezekiel 34:31 And you are my sheep, human sheep of my pasture, and I am your God, declares the Lord GOD.”
Ezekiel 35:1 The word of the LORD came to me:
Ezekiel 35:2  Mount Seir, and prophesy against it,
Ezekiel 35:3 and say to it, Thus says the Lord GOD: and I will make you a desolation and a waste.
Ezekiel 35:4  I will lay your cities waste, and you shall become a desolation, and you shall know that I am the LORD.
Ezekiel 35:5 Because at the time of their final punishment,
Ezekiel 35:6 therefore, because you did not hate bloodshed, therefore blood shall pursue you.
Ezekiel 35:7  all who come and go.
Ezekiel 35:8 And I will fill those slain with the sword shall fall.
Ezekiel 35:9  you will know that I am the LORD.
Ezekiel 35:10 “Because you said, LORD was there —
Ezekiel 35:11 therefore, I will make myself known among them, when I judge you.
Ezekiel 35:12 And you shall know that I am the LORD.  they are given us to devour.’
Ezekiel 35:13 And with your mouth, and multiplied your words against me; I heard it.
Ezekiel 35:14 Thus says the Lord GOD: While the whole earth rejoices, I will make you desolate.
Ezekiel 35:15 As you they will know that I am the LORD.
Ezekiel 36:1 “And you, the mountains of Israel, and say, O mountains of Israel, hear the word of the LORD.
Ezekiel 36:2 Thus says the Lord GOD: Because heights have become our possession,’
Ezekiel 36:3 therefore prophesy, and say, Thus says the Lord GOD: Precisely because you became the talk and evil gossip of the people,
Ezekiel 36:4 therefore, O mountains of Israel, hear the word of the Lord GOD: Thus says the Lord GOD to a prey and derision to the rest of the nations all around,
Ezekiel 36:5 therefore thus says the Lord GOD: Surely I have spoken in utter contempt, that they might make its pasturelands a prey.
Ezekiel 36:6 Therefore prophesy concerning the land of Israel, and say to the reproach of the nations.
Ezekiel 36:7 Therefore thus says the Lord GOD: shall themselves suffer reproach.
Ezekiel 36:8 “But you, O mountains of Israel, they will soon come home.
Ezekiel 36:9 For you shall be tilled and sown.
Ezekiel 36:10 And The cities shall be inhabited and the waste places rebuilt.
Ezekiel 36:11 And I will multiply on you Then you will know that I am the LORD.
Ezekiel 36:12 I will let people walk on you, even my people Israel. bereave them of children.
Ezekiel 36:13 Thus says the Lord GOD: Because they say to you, ‘You devour people, and you bereave your nation of children,’
Ezekiel 36:14 therefore you shall no longer devour people and no longer bereave your nation of children, declares the Lord GOD.
Ezekiel 36:15 And I will not let you hear anymore the reproach of the nations, and you shall no longer bear the disgrace of the peoples and no longer cause your nation to stumble, declares the Lord GOD.”
Ezekiel 36:16 The word of the LORD came to me:
Ezekiel 36:17  like the uncleanness of a woman in her menstrual impurity.
Ezekiel 36:18 So with which they had defiled it.
Ezekiel 36:19  In accordance with their ways and their deeds I judged them.
Ezekiel 36:20 But when they came to the nations, wherever they came, they profaned my holy name, in that people said of them, ‘These are the people of the LORD, and yet they had to go out of his land.’
Ezekiel 36:21 But I had concern for my holy name, which the house of Israel had profaned among the nations to which they came.
Ezekiel 36:22 “Therefore say to the house of Israel, Thus says the Lord GOD: which you have profaned among the nations to which you came.
Ezekiel 36:23  And the nations will know that I am the LORD, declares the Lord GOD, when through you I vindicate my holiness before their eyes.
Ezekiel 36:24  bring you into your own land.
Ezekiel 36:25  I will cleanse you.
Ezekiel 36:26 And I will give you And I will remove the heart of stone from your flesh and give you a heart of flesh.
Ezekiel 36:27
Ezekiel 36:28  you shall be my people, and I will be your God.
Ezekiel 36:29 And lay no famine upon you.
Ezekiel 36:30  that you may never again suffer the disgrace of famine among the nations.
Ezekiel 36:31 Then you will remember your evil ways, and your deeds that were not good, and you will loathe yourselves for your iniquities and your abominations.
Ezekiel 36:32  It is not for your sake that I will act, declares the Lord GOD; let that be known to you. Be ashamed and confounded for your ways, O house of Israel.
Ezekiel 36:33 “Thus says the Lord GOD: On the day that I will cause the cities to be inhabited, and the waste places shall be rebuilt.
Ezekiel 36:34 And the land that was desolate shall be tilled, instead of being the desolation that it was in the sight of all who passed by.
Ezekiel 36:35 And they will say, ‘This land that was desolate has become like the garden of Eden, and the waste and desolate and ruined cities are now fortified and inhabited.’
Ezekiel 36:36 Then I am the LORD; I have spoken, and I will do it.
Ezekiel 36:37 “Thus says the Lord GOD: This also a flock.
Ezekiel 36:38 Like the flock for sacrifices, Then they will know that I am the LORD.”
Ezekiel 37:1   it was full of bones.
Ezekiel 37:2 And he led me around among them, and behold, there were very many on the surface of the valley, and behold, they were very dry.
Ezekiel 37:3 And he said to me, I answered, “O Lord GOD, you know.”
Ezekiel 37:4 Then he said to me, O dry bones, hear the word of the LORD.
Ezekiel 37:5 Thus says the Lord GOD to these bones: Behold, I will cause  to enter you, and you shall live.
Ezekiel 37:6  and you shall know that I am the LORD.”
Ezekiel 37:7 So I prophesied  and the bones came together, bone to its bone.
Ezekiel 37:8 And I looked, and behold, there were sinews on them, and flesh had come upon them, and skin had covered them. But there was no breath in them.
Ezekiel 37:9 Then he said to me, the four winds, O breath, and breathe on these slain, that they may live.”
Ezekiel 37:10 So I prophesied the breath came into them, and they lived and stood on their feet, an exceedingly great army.
Ezekiel 37:11 Then he said to me, we are indeed cut off.’
Ezekiel 37:12 Therefore I will bring you into the land of Israel.
Ezekiel 37:13 And you shall know that I am the LORD, when I open your graves, and raise you from your graves, O my people.
Ezekiel 37:14 And I have spoken, and I will do it, declares the LORD.”
Ezekiel 37:15 The word of the LORD came to me:
Ezekiel 37:16  Ephraim) and all the house of Israel associated with him.’
Ezekiel 37:17 And one in your hand.
Ezekiel 37:18 And when ‘Will you not tell us what you mean by these?’
Ezekiel 37:19 say to them, Thus says the Lord GOD: Behold, I am about to take that they may be one in my hand.
Ezekiel 37:20 When the sticks on which you write are in your hand before their eyes,
Ezekiel 37:21 then say to them, Thus says the Lord GOD: Behold, bring them to their own land.
Ezekiel 37:22 And two nations, and no longer divided into two kingdoms.
Ezekiel 37:23  they shall be my people, and I will be their God.
Ezekiel 37:24 “My servant They shall walk in my rules and be careful to obey my statutes.
Ezekiel 37:25  forever.
Ezekiel 37:26  set my sanctuary in their midst forevermore.
Ezekiel 37:27  and I will be their God, and they shall be my people.
Ezekiel 37:28 Then my sanctuary is in their midst forevermore.”
Ezekiel 38:1 The word of the LORD came to me:
Ezekiel 38:2  prophesy against him
Ezekiel 38:3 and say, Thus says the Lord GOD: Behold,  and Tubal.
Ezekiel 38:4  all your army, horses and horsemen, all of them clothed in full armor, a great host, all of them with buckler and shield, wielding swords.
Ezekiel 38:5  Put are with them, all of them with shield and helmet;
Ezekiel 38:6  many peoples are with you.
Ezekiel 38:7  “Be ready and keep ready, you and all your hosts that are assembled about you, and be a guard for them.
Ezekiel 38:8  now dwell securely, all of them.
Ezekiel 38:9 You will advance, coming on hordes, and many peoples with you.
Ezekiel 38:10 “Thus says the Lord GOD: On that day, thoughts will come into your mind, and you will devise an evil scheme
Ezekiel 38:11 and say, ‘I will go up against the quiet people who dwell securely, all of them dwelling without walls, and having no bars or gates,’
Ezekiel 38:12 to seize spoil and carry off plunder, to turn your hand against who dwell at the center of the earth.
Ezekiel 38:13   will say to you, ‘Have you come to seize spoil? Have you assembled your hosts to carry off plunder, to carry away silver and gold, to take away livestock and goods, to seize great spoil?’
Ezekiel 38:14 “Therefore, will you not know it?
Ezekiel 38:15 You will come from your place out of all of them riding on horses, a great host, a mighty army.
Ezekiel 38:16 You will come up against my people Israel, I vindicate my holiness before their eyes.
Ezekiel 38:17 “Thus says the Lord GOD: Are you he of whom I spoke in former days by my servants the prophets of Israel, who in those days prophesied for years that I would bring you against them?
Ezekiel 38:18 But on that day, the day that Gog shall come against the land of Israel, declares the Lord GOD, my wrath will be roused in my anger.
Ezekiel 38:19 For there shall be a great earthquake in the land of Israel.
Ezekiel 38:20  the mountains shall be thrown down, and the cliffs shall fall, and every wall shall tumble to the ground.
Ezekiel 38:21  Every man's sword will be against his brother.
Ezekiel 38:22 With pestilence and bloodshed fire and sulfur.
Ezekiel 38:23 So I will show my greatness and my they will know that I am the LORD.
Ezekiel 39:1 “And you, Tubal.
Ezekiel 39:2  mountains of Israel.
Ezekiel 39:3 Then will make your arrows drop out of your right hand.
Ezekiel 39:4  I will give you to birds of prey of every sort and to the beasts of the field to be devoured.
Ezekiel 39:5 You shall fall in the open field, for I have spoken, declares the Lord GOD.
Ezekiel 39:6  they shall know that I am the LORD.
Ezekiel 39:7 “And the LORD, the Holy One in Israel.
Ezekiel 39:8  of which I have spoken.
Ezekiel 39:9 “Then those who dwell in the cities of Israel will go out and  and spears; and they will make fires of them for seven years,
Ezekiel 39:10 so that they will not need to take wood out of the field or cut down any out of the forests, for They will seize the spoil of those who despoiled them, and plunder those who plundered them, declares the Lord GOD.
Ezekiel 39:11 “On that day I will give to
Ezekiel 39:12 For to cleanse the land.
Ezekiel 39:13 All the people of the land will bury them, and it will bring them renown on the day that I show my glory, declares the Lord GOD.
Ezekiel 39:14 They will set apart men to travel through the land regularly and bury those travelers remaining on the face of the land, so as seven months they will make their search.
Ezekiel 39:15 And when these travel through the land and anyone sees a human bone, then he shall set up a sign by it, till the buriers have buried it in the Valley of Hamon-gog.
Ezekiel 39:16 (Hamonah  is also the name of the city.) Thus shall they cleanse the land.
Ezekiel 39:17 “As for you, the sacrificial feast that I am preparing for you, a great sacrificial feast on the mountains of Israel, and you shall eat flesh and drink blood.
Ezekiel 39:18  fat beasts of Bashan.
Ezekiel 39:19 And you shall eat fat till you are filled, and drink blood till you are drunk, at the sacrificial feast that I am preparing for you.
Ezekiel 39:20 And you shall be filled at my table with horses and charioteers, with mighty men and all kinds of warriors,’ declares the Lord GOD.
Ezekiel 39:21 “And my hand that I have laid on them.
Ezekiel 39:22  The house of Israel shall know that I am the LORD their God, from that day forward.
Ezekiel 39:23 And gave them into the hand of their adversaries, and they all fell by the sword.
Ezekiel 39:24 I dealt with them according to their uncleanness and their transgressions, and hid my face from them.
Ezekiel 39:25 “Therefore thus says the Lord GOD: Now I will be jealous for my holy name.
Ezekiel 39:26 They shall none to make them afraid,
Ezekiel 39:27  and through them have vindicated my holiness in the sight of many nations.
Ezekiel 39:28  Then they shall know that I am the LORD their God, because I sent them into exile among the nations and then assembled them into their own land. I will leave none of them remaining among the nations anymore.
Ezekiel 39:29  I pour out my Spirit upon the house of Israel, declares the Lord GOD.”
Ezekiel 40:1
Ezekiel 40:2 In a very high mountain, on which was a structure like a city to the south.
Ezekiel 40:3 When he brought me there, behold, there was a measuring reed in his hand. And he was standing in the gateway.
Ezekiel 40:4 And the man said to me, Declare all that you see to the house of Israel.”
Ezekiel 40:5 And behold, there was  in length. So he measured the thickness of the wall, one reed; and the height, one reed.
Ezekiel 40:6 Then he went into
Ezekiel 40:7 And the side rooms, one reed long and one reed broad; and the space between the side rooms, five cubits; and the threshold of the gate by the vestibule of the gate at the inner end, one reed.
Ezekiel 40:8 Then he measured the vestibule of the gateway, on the inside, one reed.
Ezekiel 40:9 Then he measured the vestibule of the gateway, eight cubits; and its jambs, two cubits; and the vestibule of the gate was at the inner end.
Ezekiel 40:10 And there were three side rooms on either side of the east gate. The three were of the same size, and the jambs on either side were of the same size.
Ezekiel 40:11 Then he measured the width of the opening of the gateway, ten cubits; and the length of the gateway, thirteen cubits.
Ezekiel 40:12 There was a barrier before the side rooms, one cubit on either side. And the side rooms were six cubits on either side.
Ezekiel 40:13 Then he measured the gate from the ceiling of the one side room to the ceiling of the other, a breadth of twenty-five cubits; the openings faced each other.
Ezekiel 40:14 He measured also
Ezekiel 40:15 From the front of the gate at the entrance to the front of the inner vestibule of the gate was fifty cubits.
Ezekiel 40:16 And the gateway had palm trees.
Ezekiel 40:17 Then he brought me into Thirty chambers faced the pavement.
Ezekiel 40:18 And the pavement ran along the side of the gates, corresponding to the length of the gates. This was the lower pavement.
Ezekiel 40:19 Then he measured the distance from the inner front of the lower gate to the outer front of the inner court,
Ezekiel 40:20 As for the outer court, he measured its length and its breadth.
Ezekiel 40:21 Its twenty-five cubits.
Ezekiel 40:22 And people would go up to it, and find its vestibule before them.
Ezekiel 40:23 And opposite the gate on the north, as on the east, was a gate to he measured from gate to gate, a hundred cubits.
Ezekiel 40:24 And he led me toward the south, and behold, there was a gate on the south. And he measured its jambs and its vestibule; they had the same size as the others.
Ezekiel 40:25 Both it and its vestibule had windows all around, like the windows of the others. Its length was fifty cubits, and its breadth twenty-five cubits.
Ezekiel 40:26 And there were seven steps leading up to it, and its vestibule was before them, and it had palm trees on its jambs, one on either side.
Ezekiel 40:27 And there was a gate on the south of the inner court. And he measured from gate to gate toward the south, a hundred cubits.
Ezekiel 40:28 Then he brought me to he measured the south gate. It was of the same size as the others.
Ezekiel 40:29 Its Its length was fifty cubits, and its breadth twenty-five cubits.
Ezekiel 40:30 And there were vestibules all around, twenty-five cubits long and five cubits broad.
Ezekiel 40:31 Its vestibule faced the outer court, and its stairway had eight steps.
Ezekiel 40:32 Then he brought me to the inner court on the east side, and he measured the gate. It was of the same size as the others.
Ezekiel 40:33 Its side rooms, its jambs, and its vestibule were of the same size as the others, and both it and its vestibule had windows all around. Its length was fifty cubits, and its breadth twenty-five cubits.
Ezekiel 40:34  Its vestibule faced the outer court, and it had palm trees on its jambs, on either side, and its stairway had eight steps.
Ezekiel 40:35 Then he brought me to he measured it. It had the same size as the others.
Ezekiel 40:36 Its side rooms, its jambs, and its vestibule were of the same size as the others,  and it had windows all around. Its length was fifty cubits, and its breadth twenty-five cubits.
Ezekiel 40:37 Its vestibule  faced the outer court, and it had palm trees on its jambs, on either side, and its stairway had eight steps.
Ezekiel 40:38 There was where the burnt offering was to be washed.
Ezekiel 40:39 And in the vestibule of the gate were two guilt offering were to be slaughtered.
Ezekiel 40:40 And off to the side, on the outside as one goes up to the entrance of the north gate, were two tables; and off to the other side of the vestibule of the gate were two tables.
Ezekiel 40:41  on which to slaughter.
Ezekiel 40:42 And there were four tables burnt offerings and the sacrifices were slaughtered.
Ezekiel 40:43 And hooks,  a handbreadth long, were fastened all around within. And on the tables the flesh of the offering was to be laid.
Ezekiel 40:44 On the outside of the inner gateway there were two  gate facing north.
Ezekiel 40:45 And he said to me, “This chamber that faces south is for the priests who have charge of the temple,
Ezekiel 40:46 and the chamber that faces north is for the priests near to the LORD to minister to him.”
Ezekiel 40:47 And he measured the court, the altar was in front of the temple.
Ezekiel 40:48 Then he brought me to  were three cubits on either side.
Ezekiel 40:49   And there were pillars beside the jambs, one on either side.
Ezekiel 41:1 Then he brought me to
Ezekiel 41:2 And the breadth of the entrance was ten cubits, and the sidewalls of the entrance were five cubits on either side. And he measured the length of the nave, twenty cubits.
Ezekiel 41:3 Then he went  of the entrance, seven cubits.
Ezekiel 41:4 And he measured the Most Holy Place.”
Ezekiel 41:5 Then he measured the wall of the temple, six cubits thick, and the breadth of all around the temple.
Ezekiel 41:6 And the side chambers were in three stories, one over another, so that they should not be supported by the wall of the temple.
Ezekiel 41:7 And it became broader as it wound upward to the side chambers, because the temple was enclosed upward all around the temple. Thus the temple had a broad area upward, and so one went up from the lowest story to the top story through the middle story.
Ezekiel 41:8 I saw also that the temple had a raised platform all around; the foundations of the side chambers measured a full reed of six long cubits.
Ezekiel 41:9 The thickness of the outer wall of the side chambers was five cubits. The free space between the side chambers of the temple and the
Ezekiel 41:10  twenty cubits all around the temple on every side.
Ezekiel 41:11 And the doors of the the free space, one door toward the north, and another door toward the south. And the breadth of the free space was five cubits all around.
Ezekiel 41:12 The building that was facing the separate yard on the west side was seventy cubits broad, and the wall of the building was five cubits thick all around, and its length ninety cubits.
Ezekiel 41:13 Then he measured the temple, a hundred cubits long; and the yard and the building with its walls, a hundred cubits long;
Ezekiel 41:14 also the breadth of the east front of the temple and the yard, a hundred cubits.
Ezekiel 41:15 Then he measured the length of  on either side, a hundred cubits. The inside of the nave and the vestibules of the court,
Ezekiel 41:16  the narrow windows and the galleries all around the three of them, opposite the threshold, were paneled with wood all around, from the floor up to the windows (now the windows were covered),
Ezekiel 41:17 to the space above the door, even to the inner room, and on the outside. And on all the walls all around, inside and outside, was a measured pattern.
Ezekiel 41:18 It was carved of palm trees, a palm tree between cherub and cherub. Every cherub had two faces:
Ezekiel 41:19  a human face toward the palm tree on the one side, and the face of a young lion toward the palm tree on the other side. They were carved on the whole temple all around.
Ezekiel 41:20 From the floor to above the door, cherubim and palm trees were carved; similarly the wall of the nave.
Ezekiel 41:21 The doorposts of the Holy Place was something resembling
Ezekiel 41:22  the table that is before the LORD.”
Ezekiel 41:23 The nave and the Holy Place had each a double door.
Ezekiel 41:24 The double doors had two leaves apiece, two swinging leaves for each door.
Ezekiel 41:25 And on the doors of the nave were carved cherubim and palm trees, the vestibule outside.
Ezekiel 41:26 And there were canopies.
Ezekiel 42:1 Then he led me out into the building on the north.
Ezekiel 42:2 The length of the building whose door faced north was the breadth fifty cubits.
Ezekiel 42:3 Facing  against gallery in three stories.
Ezekiel 42:4 And their doors were on the north.
Ezekiel 42:5 Now the upper chambers were narrower, for the galleries took more away from them than from the lower and middle chambers of the building.
Ezekiel 42:6 For they were in three stories, and they had no pillars like the pillars of the courts. Thus the upper chambers were set back from the ground more than the lower and the middle ones.
Ezekiel 42:7 And fifty cubits long.
Ezekiel 42:8 For the chambers on the outer court were fifty cubits long, while those opposite a hundred cubits long.
Ezekiel 42:9 Below these chambers was an entrance on the east side, as one enters them from the outer court.
Ezekiel 42:10 In the thickness of chambers
Ezekiel 42:11 with doors,
Ezekiel 42:12 as were the entrances of the chambers on the south. There was an entrance at the beginning of the passage, the passage before
Ezekiel 42:13 Then he said to me, “The north chambers and the south chambers opposite the guilt offering — for the place is holy.
Ezekiel 42:14 When the priests enter the Holy Place, they shall not go out of it into the outer court They shall put on other garments before they go near to that which is for the people.”
Ezekiel 42:15 Now when he had finished measuring the interior of the temple area, he led me out by the gate that faced east, and measured the temple area all around.
Ezekiel 42:16 He measured the east side with the measuring reed, 500 cubits by the measuring reed all around.
Ezekiel 42:17 He measured the north side, 500 cubits by the measuring reed all around.
Ezekiel 42:18 He measured the south side, 500 cubits by the measuring reed.
Ezekiel 42:19 Then he turned to the west side and measured, 500 cubits by the measuring reed.
Ezekiel 42:20 He measured it on the four sides. It had to make a separation between the holy and the common.
Ezekiel 43:1 Then he led me to the gate, the gate facing east.
Ezekiel 43:2 And behold, the earth shone with his glory.
Ezekiel 43:3 And I fell on my face.
Ezekiel 43:4 As entered the temple by the gate facing east,
Ezekiel 43:5  the glory of the LORD filled the temple.
Ezekiel 43:6  I heard one speaking to me out of the temple,
Ezekiel 43:7 and he said to me,
Ezekiel 43:8 by setting their threshold by my threshold and their doorposts beside my doorposts, with defiled my holy name by their abominations that they have committed, so I have consumed them in my anger.
Ezekiel 43:9 Now let them put away their whoring and the dead bodies of their kings far from me, and I will dwell in their midst forever.
Ezekiel 43:10 “As for you, describe to the house of Israel the temple, that they may be ashamed of their iniquities; and they shall measure the plan.
Ezekiel 43:11 And if they are ashamed of all that they have done, in their sight, so that they may observe all its laws and all its statutes and carry them out.
Ezekiel 43:12 This is the law of the temple: the whole territory on the top of all around shall be most holy. Behold, this is the law of the temple.
Ezekiel 43:13 “These are the measurements of  around its edge. And this shall be the height of the altar:
Ezekiel 43:14 from the base on the ground to the lower ledge, two cubits, with a breadth of one cubit; and from the smaller ledge to the larger ledge, four cubits, with a breadth of one cubit;
Ezekiel 43:15 and the altar hearth, four cubits; and from the altar hearth projecting upward, four horns.
Ezekiel 43:16 The altar hearth shall be square, twelve cubits long by twelve broad.
Ezekiel 43:17 The ledge also shall be square, fourteen cubits long by fourteen broad, with a rim around it half a cubit broad, and its base one cubit all around. The steps of the altar shall face east.”
Ezekiel 43:18 And he said to me, for throwing blood against it,
Ezekiel 43:19 you shall give to a bull from the herd for a sin offering.
Ezekiel 43:20 And Thus you shall purify the altar and make atonement for it.
Ezekiel 43:21 You shall also take the bull of the sin offering, and it shall be burned in the appointed place belonging to the temple, outside the sacred area.
Ezekiel 43:22 And on the second day you shall offer a male goat without blemish for a sin offering; and the altar shall be purified, as it was purified with the bull.
Ezekiel 43:23 When you have finished a ram from the flock without blemish.
Ezekiel 43:24 You shall present them before the LORD, and the priests shall sprinkle salt on them and offer them up as a burnt offering to the LORD.
Ezekiel 43:25  For seven days you shall provide daily a male goat for a sin offering; also, a bull from the herd and a ram from the flock, without blemish, shall be provided.
Ezekiel 43:26 Seven days shall they make atonement for the altar and cleanse it, and so consecrate it.
Ezekiel 43:27 And when they have completed these days, then I will accept you, declares the Lord GOD.”
Ezekiel 44:1 Then he brought me which faces east. And it was shut.
Ezekiel 44:2 And the LORD said to me, “This gate shall remain shut; it shall not be opened, and no one shall enter by it, for the LORD, the God of Israel, has entered by it. Therefore it shall remain shut.
Ezekiel 44:3 Only shall enter by way of the vestibule of the gate, and shall go out by the same way.”
Ezekiel 44:4 Then he brought me by way of I fell on my face.
Ezekiel 44:5 And the LORD said to me, the entrance to the temple and all the exits from the sanctuary.
Ezekiel 44:6 And say to enough of all your abominations,
Ezekiel 44:7 in  have broken my covenant, in addition to all your abominations.
Ezekiel 44:8 And you have not kept charge of my holy things, but you have set others to keep my charge for you in my sanctuary.
Ezekiel 44:9 “Thus says the Lord GOD: No foreigner, uncircumcised in heart and flesh, of all the foreigners who are among the people of Israel, shall enter my sanctuary.
Ezekiel 44:10 But
Ezekiel 44:11 They shall be they shall stand before the people, to minister to them.
Ezekiel 44:12 Because they ministered to them before their idols and became sworn concerning them, declares the Lord GOD, and they shall bear their punishment.
Ezekiel 44:13 They they shall bear their shame and the abominations that they have committed.
Ezekiel 44:14 Yet I will appoint them to keep to do all its service and all that is to be done in it.
Ezekiel 44:15 “But the fat and the blood, declares the Lord GOD.
Ezekiel 44:16 They shall enter my sanctuary, and they shall approach my table, to minister to me, and they shall keep my charge.
Ezekiel 44:17 When they enter the gates of the inner court, they shall wear linen garments. They shall have nothing of wool on them, while they minister at the gates of the inner court, and within.
Ezekiel 44:18 They shall have linen turbans on their heads, and linen undergarments around their waists. They shall not bind themselves with anything that causes sweat.
Ezekiel 44:19 And when they go out into the outer court to the people, they shall put off the garments in which they have been ministering lest they transmit holiness to the people with their garments.
Ezekiel 44:20  let their locks grow long; they shall surely trim the hair of their heads.
Ezekiel 44:21  No priest shall drink wine when he enters the inner court.
Ezekiel 44:22  They shall not marry a widow or a divorced woman, but only virgins of the offspring of the house of Israel, or a widow who is the widow of a priest.
Ezekiel 44:23  show them how to distinguish between the unclean and the clean.
Ezekiel 44:24  they shall keep my Sabbaths holy.
Ezekiel 44:25  They shall not defile themselves by going near to a dead person. However, for father or mother, for son or daughter, for brother or unmarried sister they may defile themselves.
Ezekiel 44:26   has become clean, they shall count seven days for him.
Ezekiel 44:27 And on the day that he goes into the Holy Place, he shall offer his sin offering, declares the Lord GOD.
Ezekiel 44:28  you shall give them no possession in Israel; I am their possession.
Ezekiel 44:29  every devoted thing in Israel shall be theirs.
Ezekiel 44:30  that a blessing may rest on your house.
Ezekiel 44:31  anything, whether bird or beast, that has died of itself or is torn by wild animals.
Ezekiel 45:1 “When  cubits broad. It shall be holy throughout its whole extent.
Ezekiel 45:2  an open space around it.
Ezekiel 45:3 And the Most Holy Place.
Ezekiel 45:4  It shall be the holy portion of the land. It shall be for the priests, who minister in the sanctuary and approach the LORD to minister to him, and it shall be a place for their houses and a holy place for the sanctuary.
Ezekiel 45:5
Ezekiel 45:6 “Alongside the portion set apart as the holy district It shall belong to the whole house of Israel.
Ezekiel 45:7  the prince shall belong the land on both sides of the holy district and the property of the city, alongside the holy district and the property of the city, on the west and on the east, corresponding in length to one of the tribal portions, and extending from the western to the eastern boundary
Ezekiel 45:8 of the land. It is to be his property in Israel. And they shall let the house of Israel have the land according to their tribes.
Ezekiel 45:9 “Thus says the Lord GOD: your evictions of my people, declares the Lord GOD.
Ezekiel 45:10
Ezekiel 45:11 The ephah and the bath shall be  and the ephah one tenth of a homer; the homer shall be the standard measure.
Ezekiel 45:12
Ezekiel 45:13  “This is the offering that you shall make: one sixth of an ephah from each homer of wheat, and one sixth of an ephah from each homer of barley,
Ezekiel 45:14 and as the fixed portion of oil, measured in baths, one tenth of a bath from each cor
Ezekiel 45:15 And one sheep from every flock of two hundred, from the watering places of Israel for grain offering, burnt offering, and peace offerings, to make atonement for them, declares the Lord GOD.
Ezekiel 45:16 All the people of the land shall be obliged to give this offering to the prince in Israel.
Ezekiel 45:17  It shall be the prince's duty to furnish the burnt offerings, grain offerings, and drink offerings, at the feasts, the new moons, and the Sabbaths, all the appointed feasts of the house of Israel: he shall provide the sin offerings, grain offerings, burnt offerings, and peace offerings, to make atonement on behalf of the house of Israel.
Ezekiel 45:18 “Thus says the Lord GOD: In the first month, purify the sanctuary.
Ezekiel 45:19  on the doorposts of the temple, the four corners of the ledge of the altar, and the posts of the gate of the inner court.
Ezekiel 45:20 You shall do the same on the seventh day of the month for anyone who has sinned through error or ignorance; so you shall make atonement for the temple.
Ezekiel 45:21  “In the first month, on the fourteenth day of the month, you shall celebrate the Feast of the Passover, and for seven days unleavened bread shall be eaten.
Ezekiel 45:22 On that day the prince shall provide for himself and all the people of the land a young bull for a sin offering.
Ezekiel 45:23 And on a male goat daily for a sin offering.
Ezekiel 45:24 And  of oil to each ephah.
Ezekiel 45:25  he shall make the same provision for sin offerings, burnt offerings, and grain offerings, and for the oil.
Ezekiel 46:1 “Thus says the Lord GOD: on the day of the new moon it shall be opened.
Ezekiel 46:2  the threshold of the gate. Then he shall go out, but the gate shall not be shut until evening.
Ezekiel 46:3  The people of the land shall bow down at the entrance of that gate before the LORD on the Sabbaths and on the new moons.
Ezekiel 46:4  on the Sabbath day shall be six lambs without blemish and a ram without blemish.
Ezekiel 46:5 And  of oil to each ephah.
Ezekiel 46:6 On the day of the new moon he shall offer a bull from the herd without blemish, and six lambs and a ram, which shall be without blemish.
Ezekiel 46:7 As a grain offering he shall provide an ephah with the bull and an ephah with the ram, and with the lambs as much as he is able, together with a hin of oil to each ephah.
Ezekiel 46:8  When the prince enters, he shall enter by the vestibule of the gate, and he shall go out by the same way.
Ezekiel 46:9  come before the LORD at the appointed feasts, he who enters by the north gate to worship shall go out by the south gate, and he who enters by the south gate shall go out by the north gate: no one shall return by way of the gate by which he entered, but each shall go out straight ahead.
Ezekiel 46:10 When they enter, the prince shall enter with them, and when they go out, he shall go out.
Ezekiel 46:11 “At the feasts and the appointed festivals, as much as one is able to give, together with a hin of oil to an ephah.
Ezekiel 46:12 When the prince provides as he does on the Sabbath day. Then he shall go out, and after he has gone out the gate shall be shut.
Ezekiel 46:13  “You shall provide a lamb a year old without blemish for a burnt offering to the LORD daily; morning by morning you shall provide it.
Ezekiel 46:14 And you shall provide a grain offering with it morning by morning, one sixth of an ephah, and one third of a hin of oil to moisten the flour, as a grain offering to the LORD. This is a perpetual statute.
Ezekiel 46:15 Thus the lamb and the meal offering and the oil shall be provided, morning by morning, for a regular burnt offering.
Ezekiel 46:16 “Thus says the Lord GOD: If the prince makes a gift to any of his sons as his inheritance, it shall belong to his sons. It is their property by inheritance.
Ezekiel 46:17 But if he makes a gift the year of liberty. Then it shall revert to the prince; surely it is his inheritance — it shall belong to his sons.
Ezekiel 46:18  scattered from his property.”
Ezekiel 46:19 Then he brought me through the entrance, which was the holy chambers for the priests, and behold, a place was there at the extreme western end of them.
Ezekiel 46:20 And he said to me, “This is the place where the priests transmit holiness to the people.”
Ezekiel 46:21 Then he brought me out to the outer court and led me around to the four corners of the court. And behold, in each corner of the court there was another court —
Ezekiel 46:22 in the four corners of the court were small  long and thirty broad; the four were of the same size.
Ezekiel 46:23 On the inside, around each of the four courts was a row of masonry, with hearths made at the bottom of the rows all around.
Ezekiel 46:24 Then he said to me, “These are the kitchens where those who shall boil the sacrifices of the people.”
Ezekiel 47:1 Then he brought me back to the altar.
Ezekiel 47:2 Then he brought me out by way of the outer gate that faces toward the east; and behold, the water was trickling out on the south side.
Ezekiel 47:3 Going on eastward with a measuring line in his hand,  and then led me through the water, and it was ankle-deep.
Ezekiel 47:4 Again he measured a thousand, and led me through the water, and it was knee-deep. Again he measured a thousand, and led me through the water, and it was waist-deep.
Ezekiel 47:5 Again he measured a thousand, and it was a river that I could not pass through, for the water had risen. It was deep enough to swim in, a river that could not be passed through.
Ezekiel 47:6 And he said to me, have you seen this?” Then he led me back to the bank of the river.
Ezekiel 47:7 As I went back, I saw on the bank of the river very many trees on the one side and on the other.
Ezekiel 47:8 And he said to me, “This water flows toward the eastern region and goes down into
Ezekiel 47:9 And wherever the river goes,  may become fresh; so everything will live where the river goes.
Ezekiel 47:10 Fishermen will stand beside the sea. From
Ezekiel 47:11 But its swamps and marshes will not become fresh; they are to be left for salt.
Ezekiel 47:12 And on the banks, their leaves for healing.”
Ezekiel 47:13 Thus says the Lord GOD: “This is the boundary Joseph shall have two portions.
Ezekiel 47:14 And you shall divide equally what This land shall fall to you as your inheritance.
Ezekiel 47:15 “This shall be the boundary of the land: On the north side, from
Ezekiel 47:16  Hamath), as far as Hazer-hatticon, which is on the border of Hauran.
Ezekiel 47:17 So the boundary shall run from the sea to
Ezekiel 47:18 “On the east side, the boundary shall run between Hauran and Damascus; along the Jordan between  This shall be the east side.
Ezekiel 47:19 “On the south side, it shall run from the Great Sea. This shall be the south side.
Ezekiel 47:20 “On the west side, the Great Sea shall be the boundary to a point opposite Lebo-hamath. This shall be the west side.
Ezekiel 47:21  “So you shall divide this land among you according to the tribes of Israel.
Ezekiel 47:22  They shall be to you as native-born children of Israel. With you they shall be allotted an inheritance among the tribes of Israel.
Ezekiel 47:23 In whatever tribe the sojourner resides, there you shall assign him his inheritance, declares the Lord GOD.
Ezekiel 48:1 “These are the names of the tribes: Beginning at the northern extreme, beside Dan, one portion.
Ezekiel 48:2 Adjoining the territory of Dan, from the east side to the west, Asher, one portion.
Ezekiel 48:3 Adjoining the territory of Asher, from the east side to the west, Naphtali, one portion.
Ezekiel 48:4 Adjoining the territory of Naphtali, from the east side to the west, Manasseh, one portion.
Ezekiel 48:5 Adjoining the territory of Manasseh, from the east side to the west, Ephraim, one portion.
Ezekiel 48:6 Adjoining the territory of Ephraim, from the east side to the west, Reuben, one portion.
Ezekiel 48:7 Adjoining the territory of Reuben, from the east side to the west, Judah, one portion.
Ezekiel 48:8 “Adjoining the territory of Judah, from the east side to the west, shall be the sanctuary in the midst of it.
Ezekiel 48:9 The portion that you shall set apart for the LORD shall be 25,000 cubits in length, and 20,000  in breadth.
Ezekiel 48:10  These shall be the allotments of the holy portion: the priests shall have an allotment measuring 25,000 cubits on the northern side, 10,000 cubits in breadth on the western side, 10,000 in breadth on the eastern side, and 25,000 in length on the southern side, with the sanctuary of the LORD in the midst of it.
Ezekiel 48:11 This shall be for as the Levites did.
Ezekiel 48:12 And it shall belong to them as a special portion from the holy portion of the land, a most holy place, adjoining the territory of the Levites.
Ezekiel 48:13
Ezekiel 48:14 They this choice portion of the land, for it is holy to the LORD.
Ezekiel 48:15  open country. In the midst of it shall be the city,
Ezekiel 48:16 and these shall be its measurements: the north side 4,500 cubits, the south side 4,500, the east side 4,500, and the west side 4,500.
Ezekiel 48:17 And the city shall have open land: on the north 250 cubits, on the south 250, on the east 250, and on the west 250.
Ezekiel 48:18 The remainder of the length alongside the holy portion shall be 10,000 cubits to the east, and 10,000 to the west, and it shall be alongside the holy portion. Its produce shall be food for the workers of the city.
Ezekiel 48:19 And the workers of the city, from all the tribes of Israel, shall till it.
Ezekiel 48:20 The whole portion that you shall set apart shall be 25,000 cubits square, that is, the holy portion together with the property of the city.
Ezekiel 48:21  The holy portion with the sanctuary of the temple shall be in its midst.
Ezekiel 48:22 It shall be separate from the property of the Levites and the property of the city, which are in the midst of that which belongs to the prince. The portion of the prince shall lie between the territory of Judah and the territory of Benjamin.
Ezekiel 48:23 “As for the rest of the tribes: from the east side to the west, Benjamin, one portion.
Ezekiel 48:24 Adjoining the territory of Benjamin, from the east side to the west, Simeon, one portion.
Ezekiel 48:25 Adjoining the territory of Simeon, from the east side to the west, Issachar, one portion.
Ezekiel 48:26 Adjoining the territory of Issachar, from the east side to the west, Zebulun, one portion.
Ezekiel 48:27 Adjoining the territory of Zebulun, from the east side to the west, Gad, one portion.
Ezekiel 48:28 And adjoining the territory of Gad to the south, the boundary shall run
Ezekiel 48:29 This is the land that you shall allot as an inheritance among the tribes of Israel, and these are their portions, declares the Lord GOD.
Ezekiel 48:30 “These shall be 4,500 cubits by measure,
Ezekiel 48:31  Levi, the gates of the city being named after the tribes of Israel.
Ezekiel 48:32 On the east side, which is to be 4,500 cubits, three gates, the gate of Joseph, the gate of Benjamin, and the gate of Dan.
Ezekiel 48:33 On the south side, which is to be 4,500 cubits by measure, three gates, the gate of Simeon, the gate of Issachar, and the gate of Zebulun.
Ezekiel 48:34 On the west side, which is to be 4,500 cubits, three gates,  the gate of Gad, the gate of Asher, and the gate of Naphtali.
Ezekiel 48:35 The circumference of the city shall be 18,000 cubits. And The LORD Is There.”
Daniel 1:1 In the third year of the reign of Jehoiakim king of Judah, Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon came to Jerusalem and besieged it.
Daniel 1:2 And the Lord gave Jehoiakim king of Judah into his hand, with some of and placed the vessels in the treasury of his god.
Daniel 1:3 Then the king commanded Ashpenaz, the nobility,
Daniel 1:4 youths without Chaldeans.
Daniel 1:5 The king assigned them a daily portion of stand before the king.
Daniel 1:6 Among these were Azariah of the tribe of Judah.
Daniel 1:7 And Daniel he called Belteshazzar, Hananiah he called Shadrach, Mishael he called Meshach, and Azariah he called Abednego.
Daniel 1:8 But Daniel defile himself.
Daniel 1:9  And God gave Daniel favor and compassion in the sight of the chief of the eunuchs,
Daniel 1:10 and the chief of the eunuchs said to Daniel, “I fear my lord the king, who assigned your food and your drink; for why should he see that you were in worse condition than the youths who are of your own age? So you would endanger my head with the king.”
Daniel 1:11 Then Daniel said to the steward whom the chief of the eunuchs had assigned over Daniel, Hananiah, Mishael, and Azariah,
Daniel 1:12 “Test your servants for ten days; let us be given vegetables to eat and water to drink.
Daniel 1:13 Then let our appearance and the appearance of the youths who eat the king's food be observed by you, and deal with your servants according to what you see.”
Daniel 1:14 So he listened to them in this matter, and tested them for ten days.
Daniel 1:15 At the end of ten days it was seen that they were better in appearance and fatter in flesh than all the youths who ate the king's food.
Daniel 1:16  vegetables.
Daniel 1:17 As for these four youths, understanding in all visions and dreams.
Daniel 1:18 At the end of the time, when the king had commanded that they should be brought in, the chief of the eunuchs brought them in before Nebuchadnezzar.
Daniel 1:19 And the king spoke with them, and among all of them none was found like Daniel, Hananiah, Mishael, and Azariah. Therefore they stood before the king.
Daniel 1:20 And in every matter of wisdom and understanding about which the king inquired of them, he found them ten times better than all enchanters that were in all his kingdom.
Daniel 1:21 And Daniel King Cyrus.
Daniel 2:1 In the second year of the reign of Nebuchadnezzar, Nebuchadnezzar had dreams; his sleep left him.
Daniel 2:2 Then the king commanded that stood before the king.
Daniel 2:3 And the king said to them, “I had a dream, and my spirit is troubled to know the dream.”
Daniel 2:4 Then “O king, live forever! Tell your servants the dream, and we will show the interpretation.”
Daniel 2:5 The king answered and said to houses shall be laid in ruins.
Daniel 2:6 But if you show the dream and its interpretation, Therefore show me the dream and its interpretation.”
Daniel 2:7 They answered a second time and said, “Let the king tell his servants the dream, and we will show its interpretation.”
Daniel 2:8 The king answered and said, “I know with certainty that you are trying to gain time, because you see that the word from me is firm —
Daniel 2:9 if you do not make the dream known to me, Therefore tell me the dream, and I shall know that you can show me its interpretation.”
Daniel 2:10  Chaldean.
Daniel 2:11 The thing that the king asks is difficult, and no one can show it to the king except the gods, whose dwelling is not with flesh.”
Daniel 2:12 Because of this the king was angry and the wise men of Babylon be destroyed.
Daniel 2:13 So the decree went out, and the wise men were about to be killed; and they sought Daniel and his companions, to kill them.
Daniel 2:14 Then Daniel replied with prudence and discretion to captain of the king's guard, who had gone out to kill the wise men of Babylon.
Daniel 2:15 He declared so urgent?” Then Arioch made the matter known to Daniel.
Daniel 2:16 And Daniel went in and requested the king to appoint him a time, that he might show the interpretation to the king.
Daniel 2:17 Then Daniel went to his house and made the matter known to Azariah, his companions,
Daniel 2:18  be destroyed with the rest of the wise men of Babylon.
Daniel 2:19 Then the mystery was revealed to Daniel in God of heaven.
Daniel 2:20 Daniel answered and said: to whom belong wisdom and might.
Daniel 2:21 and knowledge to those who have understanding;
Daniel 2:22 and the light dwells with him.
Daniel 2:23 To you, O we asked of you, for you have made known to us the king's matter.”
Daniel 2:24 Therefore Daniel went in to Arioch, whom the king had appointed to destroy the wise men of Babylon. He went and said thus to him: “Do not destroy the wise men of Babylon; bring me in before the king, and I will show the king the interpretation.”
Daniel 2:25 Then among the exiles from Judah a man who will make known to the king the interpretation.”
Daniel 2:26 The king declared to Daniel, “Are you able to make known to me the dream that I have seen and its interpretation?”
Daniel 2:27 Daniel answered the king and said, “No wise men, astrologers can show to the king the mystery that the king has asked,
Daniel 2:28 but the visions of your head as you lay in bed are these:
Daniel 2:29 To you, O king, as you lay in bed came thoughts of what would be after this, and he who reveals mysteries made known to you what is to be.
Daniel 2:30 But you may know the thoughts of your mind.
Daniel 2:31 “You saw, O king, and behold, a great image. This image, mighty and of exceeding brightness, stood before you, and its appearance was frightening.
Daniel 2:32  thighs of bronze,
Daniel 2:33  its legs of iron, its feet partly of iron and partly of clay.
Daniel 2:34 As you looked, a stone was cut out broke them in pieces.
Daniel 2:35 Then the iron, the clay, the bronze, the silver, and the gold, all together were broken in pieces, and became and filled the whole earth.
Daniel 2:36 “This was the dream. Now we will tell the king its interpretation.
Daniel 2:37 You, O king, has given the kingdom, the power, and the might, and the glory,
Daniel 2:38 and into whose hand he has given, wherever they dwell, the children of man, the head of gold.
Daniel 2:39  which shall rule over all the earth.
Daniel 2:40 And break and crush all these.
Daniel 2:41 And as you saw firmness of iron shall be in it, just as you saw iron mixed with the soft clay.
Daniel 2:42 And as the toes of the feet were partly iron and partly clay, so the kingdom shall be partly strong and partly brittle.
Daniel 2:43 As you saw the iron mixed with soft clay, so they will mix with one another in marriage,  but they will not hold together, just as iron does not mix with clay.
Daniel 2:44 And in the days of those kings it shall stand forever,
Daniel 2:45 just as great God has made known to the king what shall be after this. The dream is certain, and its interpretation sure.”
Daniel 2:46 Then King Nebuchadnezzar incense be offered up to him.
Daniel 2:47 The king answered and said to Daniel, “Truly, your a revealer of mysteries, for you have been able to reveal this mystery.”
Daniel 2:48 Then the king gave Daniel high honors and many great chief prefect over all the wise men of Babylon.
Daniel 2:49 Daniel made a request of the king, and he remained at the king's court.
Daniel 3:1 King Nebuchadnezzar made an image of gold, whose height was sixty cubits the province of Babylon.
Daniel 3:2 Then King Nebuchadnezzar sent to gather the governors, the counselors, the treasurers, the justices, the magistrates, and all the officials of the provinces to come to the dedication of the image that King Nebuchadnezzar had set up.
Daniel 3:3 Then the satraps, the prefects, and the governors, the counselors, the treasurers, the justices, the magistrates, and all the officials of the provinces gathered for the dedication of the image that King Nebuchadnezzar had set up. And they stood before the image that Nebuchadnezzar had set up.
Daniel 3:4 And the herald peoples, nations, and languages,
Daniel 3:5 that when you hear the are to fall down and worship the golden image that King Nebuchadnezzar has set up.
Daniel 3:6 And whoever does not fall down and worship shall immediately be cast into a burning fiery furnace.”
Daniel 3:7 Therefore, as soon as all the peoples heard the sound of the horn, pipe, lyre, trigon, harp, bagpipe, and every kind of music, all the peoples, nations, and languages fell down and worshiped the golden image that King Nebuchadnezzar had set up.
Daniel 3:8 Therefore at that time certain came forward and maliciously accused the Jews.
Daniel 3:9 They declared  to King Nebuchadnezzar, “O king, live forever!
Daniel 3:10 You, O king, shall fall down and worship the golden image.
Daniel 3:11 And whoever does not fall down and worship shall be cast into a burning fiery furnace.
Daniel 3:12 There are certain Jews whom you have pay no attention to you; they do not serve your gods or worship the golden image that you have set up.”
Daniel 3:13 Then Nebuchadnezzar Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego be brought. So they brought these men before the king.
Daniel 3:14 Nebuchadnezzar answered and said to them, “Is it true, O Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego, that you do not serve my gods or worship the golden image that I have set up?
Daniel 3:15 Now if you are ready when who is the god who will deliver you out of my hands?”
Daniel 3:16  Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego answered and said to the king, “O Nebuchadnezzar, we have no need to answer you in this matter.
Daniel 3:17 If this be so,
Daniel 3:18 But if not, be it known to you, O king, that we will not serve your gods or worship the golden image that you have set up.”
Daniel 3:19 Then Nebuchadnezzar was Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego. He ordered the furnace heated seven times more than it was usually heated.
Daniel 3:20 And he ordered some of the mighty men of his army Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego, and to cast them into the burning fiery furnace.
Daniel 3:21 Then these men were  their hats, and their other garments, and they were thrown into the burning fiery furnace.
Daniel 3:22 Because the king's order was Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego.
Daniel 3:23 And these three men, Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego, fell bound into the burning fiery furnace.
Daniel 3:24 Then King Nebuchadnezzar was bound into the fire?” They answered and said to the king, “True, O king.”
Daniel 3:25 He answered and said, “But I see four men unbound, a son of the gods.”
Daniel 3:26 Then Nebuchadnezzar came near to the door of the burning fiery furnace; he declared, Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego came out from the fire.
Daniel 3:27 And the cloaks were not harmed, and no smell of fire had come upon them.
Daniel 3:28 Nebuchadnezzar answered and said, “Blessed be the God of serve and worship any god except their own God.
Daniel 3:29 Therefore shall be torn limb from limb, and their houses laid in ruins, for there is no other god who is able to rescue in this way.”
Daniel 3:30 Then the king promoted the province of Babylon.
Daniel 4:1  Peace be multiplied to you!
Daniel 4:2 It has seemed good to me to show the Most High God has done for me.
Daniel 4:3 How great areand his dominion endures from generation to generation.
Daniel 4:4  I, Nebuchadnezzar, was at ease in my house and prospering in my palace.
Daniel 4:5 I saw a dream that made me afraid. As I lay in bed the fancies and the visions of my head alarmed me.
Daniel 4:6 So all the wise men of Babylon should be brought before me, that they might make known to me the interpretation of the dream.
Daniel 4:7 Then they could not make known to me its interpretation.
Daniel 4:8 At last Daniel came in before me — he who was named  — and I told him the dream, saying,
Daniel 4:9 “O Belteshazzar, the visions of my dream that I saw and their interpretation.
Daniel 4:10  behold, a tree in the midst of the earth, and its height was great.
Daniel 4:11  The tree grew and became strong, and its top reached to heaven, and it was visible to the end of the whole earth.
Daniel 4:12  the birds of the heavens lived in its branches, and all flesh was fed from it.
Daniel 4:13 “I saw in a holy one, came down from heaven.
Daniel 4:14 He Let the beasts flee from under it and the birds from its branches.
Daniel 4:15 But leave the stump of its roots in the earth, bound with a band of iron and bronze, amid the tender grass of the field. Let him be wet with the dew of heaven. Let his portion be with the beasts in the grass of the earth.
Daniel 4:16 Let his mind be changed from a man's, and let a beast's mind be given to him; pass over him.
Daniel 4:17 The sentence is by the decree of sets over it the lowliest of men.’
Daniel 4:18 This dream I, King Nebuchadnezzar, saw. And you, O the spirit of the holy gods is in you.”
Daniel 4:19 Then Daniel, whose name was and its interpretation for your enemies!
Daniel 4:20  The tree you saw, which grew and became strong, so that its top reached to heaven, and it was visible to the end of the whole earth,
Daniel 4:21  whose leaves were beautiful and its fruit abundant, and in which was food for all, under which beasts of the field found shade, and in whose branches the birds of the heavens lived —
Daniel 4:22  and your dominion to the ends of the earth.
Daniel 4:23 And because the king saw seven periods of time pass over him,’
Daniel 4:24 this is the interpretation, O king: It is a decree of the Most High, which has come upon my lord the king,
Daniel 4:25  you know that the Most High rules the kingdom of men and gives it to whom he will.
Daniel 4:26 And as it was commanded to leave the stump of the roots of the tree, your kingdom shall be confirmed for you from the time that you know that Heaven rules.
Daniel 4:27 Therefore, O king, let my counsel be acceptable to you: break off your sins by that there may perhaps be a lengthening of your prosperity.”
Daniel 4:28 All this came upon King Nebuchadnezzar.
Daniel 4:29 At the end of twelve months he was walking on the roof of the royal palace of Babylon,
Daniel 4:30 and the king answered and said, the glory of my majesty?”
Daniel 4:31  While the words were still in the king's mouth, there fell a voice from heaven, “O King Nebuchadnezzar, to you it is spoken: The kingdom has departed from you,
Daniel 4:32  until you know that the Most High rules the kingdom of men and gives it to whom he will.”
Daniel 4:33 Immediately the word was fulfilled against Nebuchadnezzar. He was driven from among men and ate grass like an ox, and his body was wet with the dew of heaven till his hair grew as long as eagles' feathers, and his nails were like birds' claws.
Daniel 4:34  his kingdom endures from generation to generation;
Daniel 4:35  say to him, “What have you done?”
Daniel 4:36 At the same time added to me.
Daniel 4:37 Now I, Nebuchadnezzar, those who walk in pride he is able to humble.
Daniel 5:1  lords and drank wine in front of the thousand.
Daniel 5:2   had taken out of the temple in Jerusalem be brought, that the king and his lords, his wives, and his concubines might drink from them.
Daniel 5:3 Then they brought in the golden vessels that had been taken out of the temple, the house of God in Jerusalem, and the king and his lords, his wives, and his concubines drank from them.
Daniel 5:4 They drank wine and gods of gold and silver, bronze, iron, wood, and stone.
Daniel 5:5  the hand as it wrote.
Daniel 5:6  his knees knocked together.
Daniel 5:7  shall be the third ruler in the kingdom.”
Daniel 5:8 Then all the king's wise men came in, but they could not read the writing or make known to the king the interpretation.
Daniel 5:9 Then King Belshazzar was greatly lords were perplexed.
Daniel 5:10 The queen, or your color change.
Daniel 5:11 There is a man in your kingdom enchanters, Chaldeans, and astrologers,
Daniel 5:12  whom the king named Belteshazzar. Now let Daniel be called, and he will show the interpretation.”
Daniel 5:13 Then Daniel was brought in before the king. The king answered and said to Daniel, “You are that Daniel, one of the exiles of Judah, whom the king my father brought from Judah.
Daniel 5:14 I have heard of you that light and understanding and excellent wisdom are found in you.
Daniel 5:15 Now they could not show the interpretation of the matter.
Daniel 5:16  shall be the third ruler in the kingdom.”
Daniel 5:17 Then Daniel answered and said before the king, “Let your gifts be for yourself, and give your rewards to another. Nevertheless, I will read the writing to the king and make known to him the interpretation.
Daniel 5:18 O king, the kingship and greatness and glory and majesty.
Daniel 5:19 And because of the greatness that he gave him, trembled and feared before him. Whom he would, he killed, and whom he would, he kept alive; whom he would, he raised up, and whom he would, he humbled.
Daniel 5:20 But he was brought down from his kingly throne, and his glory was taken from him.
Daniel 5:21  Most High God rules the kingdom of mankind and sets over it whom he will.
Daniel 5:22 And you his son, have not humbled your heart, though you knew all this,
Daniel 5:23 but you have lifted up yourself against you have not honored.
Daniel 5:24 “Then from his presence the hand was sent, and this writing was inscribed.
Daniel 5:25 And this is the writing that was inscribed: MENE, MENE, TEKEL, and PARSIN.
Daniel 5:26 This is the interpretation of the matter: MENE, God has numbered  the days of your kingdom and brought it to an end;
Daniel 5:27 TEKEL,  in the balances and found wanting;
Daniel 5:28 PERES, your kingdom is divided and given to
Daniel 5:29 Then was clothed with purple, a chain of gold was put around his neck, and a proclamation was made about him, that he should be the third ruler in the kingdom.
Daniel 5:30  Chaldean king was killed.
Daniel 5:31  the Mede received the kingdom, being about sixty-two years old.
Daniel 6:1 It pleased Darius to set over the kingdom satraps, to be throughout the whole kingdom;
Daniel 6:2 and over them satraps should give account, so that the king might suffer no loss.
Daniel 6:3 Then this Daniel became to set him over the whole kingdom.
Daniel 6:4 Then and no error or fault was found in him.
Daniel 6:5 Then these men said, “We shall not find any ground for complaint against this Daniel unless we find it in connection with the law of his God.”
Daniel 6:6 Then these King Darius, live forever!
Daniel 6:7 All the injunction, that whoever makes petition to any god or man for thirty days, except to you, O king, shall be cast into the den of lions.
Daniel 6:8 Now, O king, establish which cannot be revoked.”
Daniel 6:9 Therefore King Darius signed the document and injunction.
Daniel 6:10 When Daniel knew that the document had been signed, he went to his house where gave thanks before his God, as he had done previously.
Daniel 6:11 Then these men came by agreement and found Daniel making petition and plea before his God.
Daniel 6:12 Then they which cannot be revoked.”
Daniel 6:13 Then they answered and said before the king, three times a day.”
Daniel 6:14 Then was much distressed and set his mind to deliver Daniel. And he labored till the sun went down to rescue him.
Daniel 6:15 Then these men came by agreement to the king and said to the king, “Know, O king, that it is a law of the Medes and Persians that no injunction or ordinance that the king establishes can be changed.”
Daniel 6:16 Then the king commanded, and Daniel was brought and cast into the den of lions. The king declared your God, whom you serve continually, deliver you!”
Daniel 6:17  lords, that nothing might be changed concerning Daniel.
Daniel 6:18 Then the king went to his palace and spent the night fasting; sleep fled from him.
Daniel 6:19 Then, at break of day, the king arose and went in haste to the den of lions.
Daniel 6:20 As he came near to the den where Daniel was, he cried out in a tone of anguish. The king declared to Daniel, “O Daniel, servant of been able to deliver you from the lions?”
Daniel 6:21 Then Daniel said to the king, “O king, live forever!
Daniel 6:22 My God and also before you, O king, I have done no harm.”
Daniel 6:23 Then the king was exceedingly glad, and commanded that Daniel be taken up out of the den. So Daniel was taken up out of the den, and no kind of harm was found on him, because he had trusted in his God.
Daniel 6:24 And the king commanded, and those men who had maliciously accused Daniel were brought and cast into the den of lions — they, their children, and their wives. And before they reached the bottom of the den, the lions overpowered them and broke all their bones in pieces.
Daniel 6:25 Then King Darius wrote to all “Peace be multiplied to you.
Daniel 6:26  to the end.
Daniel 6:27 He delivers and rescues; he works saved Daniel from the power of the lions.”
Daniel 6:28 So this Daniel prospered during the reign of Darius and Cyrus the Persian.
Daniel 7:1 In the first year of visions of his head as he lay in his bed. Then he wrote down the dream and told the sum of the matter.
Daniel 7:2 Daniel declared, the four winds of heaven were stirring up the great sea.
Daniel 7:3 And four great beasts came up out of the sea, different from one another.
Daniel 7:4 The first was like a lion and had eagles' wings. Then as I looked its wings were plucked off, and it was lifted up from the ground and made to stand on two feet like a man, and the mind of a man was given to it.
Daniel 7:5 And behold, another beast, a second one, like a bear. It was raised up on one side. It had three ribs in its mouth between its teeth; and it was told, ‘Arise, devour much flesh.’
Daniel 7:6 After this I looked, and behold, another, like a dominion was given to it.
Daniel 7:7 After this I saw in the night visions, and behold, a fourth beast, it had ten horns.
Daniel 7:8 I considered the horns, and behold, a mouth speaking great things.
Daniel 7:9 “As I looked, its wheels were burning fire.
Daniel 7:10  the books were opened.
Daniel 7:11 “I looked then because of the sound of and given over to be burned with fire.
Daniel 7:12 As for the rest of the beasts, their dominion was taken away, but their lives were prolonged for a season and a time.
Daniel 7:13 “I saw in the night visions, and Ancient of Days and was presented before him.
Daniel 7:14 his dominion is an everlasting dominion, which shall not pass away, and his kingdom one that shall not be destroyed.
Daniel 7:15 “As for me, Daniel, my spirit within me the visions of my head alarmed me.
Daniel 7:16 I approached one of those who stood there and asked him the truth concerning all this. So he told me and made known to me the interpretation of the things.
Daniel 7:17  ‘These four great beasts are four kings who shall arise out of the earth.
Daniel 7:18 But the saints of the Most High shall receive the kingdom and possess the kingdom forever, forever and ever.’
Daniel 7:19 “Then I desired to know the truth about the fourth beast, which was different from all the rest, exceedingly terrifying, with its teeth of iron and claws of bronze, and which devoured and broke in pieces and stamped what was left with its feet,
Daniel 7:20  and about the ten horns that were on its head, and the other horn that came up and before which three of them fell, the horn that had eyes and a mouth that spoke great things, and that seemed greater than its companions.
Daniel 7:21 As I looked, this horn made war with the saints and prevailed over them,
Daniel 7:22 until the the saints possessed the kingdom.
Daniel 7:23 “Thus he said: ‘As for the fourth beast, there shall be a fourth kingdom on earth, which shall be different from all the kingdoms, and it shall devour the whole earth, and trample it down, and break it to pieces.
Daniel 7:24 As for the ten horns, out of this kingdom ten kings shall arise, and another shall arise after them; he shall be different from the former ones, and shall put down three kings.
Daniel 7:25  a time, times, and half a time.
Daniel 7:26  to the end.
Daniel 7:27
Daniel 7:28 “Here is the end of the matter. I kept the matter in my heart.”
Daniel 8:1 In the third year of the reign of at the first.
Daniel 8:2 And I saw in the vision; and when I saw, I was in Ulai canal.
Daniel 8:3 I raised my eyes and saw, and behold, a ram standing on the bank of the canal. It had two horns, and both horns were high, but one was higher than the other, and the higher one came up last.
Daniel 8:4 I saw became great.
Daniel 8:5 As I was considering, behold, a a conspicuous horn between his eyes.
Daniel 8:6 He came to and he ran at him in his powerful wrath.
Daniel 8:7 I saw him come close to the ram, cast him down to the ground and trampled on him. And there was no one who could rescue the ram from his power.
Daniel 8:8 Then the four winds of heaven.
Daniel 8:9 Out of one of them came the glorious land.
Daniel 8:10  trampled on them.
Daniel 8:11  And the regular burnt offering was taken away from him, and the place of his sanctuary was overthrown.
Daniel 8:12 And a host will be given over to it together with the regular burnt offering because of transgression, it will act and prosper.
Daniel 8:13 Then I heard the transgression that makes desolate, and the giving over of the sanctuary and host to be trampled underfoot?”
Daniel 8:14 And he said to me, evenings and mornings. Then the sanctuary shall be restored to its rightful state.”
Daniel 8:15 When I, Daniel, had seen the vision, I the appearance of a man.
Daniel 8:16  “Gabriel, make this man understand the vision.”
Daniel 8:17 So he came near where I stood. And when he came, the time of the end.”
Daniel 8:18 And when he had spoken to me, he touched me and made me stand up.
Daniel 8:19 He said, “Behold, I will make known to you what shall be at the latter end of the appointed time of the end.
Daniel 8:20 As for Media and Persia.
Daniel 8:21 And the first king.
Daniel 8:22  but not with his power.
Daniel 8:23 And at the latter end of their kingdom, when the transgressors have reached their limit, a king of bold face, one who understands riddles, shall arise.
Daniel 8:24 His power shall be great — and destroy mighty men and the people who are the saints.
Daniel 8:25  by no human hand.
Daniel 8:26 The vision of for it refers to many days from now.”
Daniel 8:27 And and did not understand it.
Daniel 9:1  Chaldeans —
Daniel 9:2 in the first year of his reign, I, Daniel, perceived in the books the number of years that, according to the word of the LORD to Jeremiah the prophet, must pass before the end of the desolations of Jerusalem, namely, seventy years.
Daniel 9:3 Then I turned my face to the Lord God, seeking him by prayer and pleas for mercy with fasting and sackcloth and ashes.
Daniel 9:4 I prayed to the LORD my God and keeps covenant and steadfast love with those who love him and keep his commandments,
Daniel 9:5  and rebelled, turning aside from your commandments and rules.
Daniel 9:6  our kings, our princes, and our fathers, and to all the people of the land.
Daniel 9:7 To you, the treachery that they have committed against you.
Daniel 9:8 To us, O LORD, belongs open shame, to our kings, to our princes, and to our fathers, because we have sinned against you.
Daniel 9:9  To the Lord our God belong mercy and forgiveness, for we have rebelled against him
Daniel 9:10  his servants the prophets.
Daniel 9:11  we have sinned against him.
Daniel 9:12 He has confirmed his words, which he spoke against us and against For under the whole heaven there has not been done anything like what has been done against Jerusalem.
Daniel 9:13  turning from our iniquities and gaining insight by your truth.
Daniel 9:14  we have not obeyed his voice.
Daniel 9:15 And now, O Lord our God, who brought your people out of the land of Egypt we have sinned, we have done wickedly.
Daniel 9:16 “O Lord, a byword among all who are around us.
Daniel 9:17 Now therefore, O our God, listen to the prayer of your servant and to his pleas for mercy, and for your own sake, O Lord, your sanctuary, which is desolate.
Daniel 9:18  the city that is called by your name. For we do not present our pleas before you because of our righteousness, but because of your great mercy.
Daniel 9:19 O Lord, hear; O Lord, forgive. O Lord, pay attention and act. your people are called by your name.”
Daniel 9:20  the holy hill of my God,
Daniel 9:21 while I was speaking in prayer, the man the time of the evening sacrifice.
Daniel 9:22  insight and understanding.
Daniel 9:23  and understand the vision.
Daniel 9:24
Daniel 9:25  but in a troubled time.
Daniel 9:26 And after the sixty-two weeks, an anointed one shall Desolations are decreed.
Daniel 9:27 And he shall make a strong covenant with many for one week, the decreed end is poured out on the desolator.”
Daniel 10:1  had understanding of the vision.
Daniel 10:2 In those days I, Daniel, was mourning for three weeks.
Daniel 10:3 I ate no delicacies, no meat or wine entered my mouth, nor did I the full three weeks.
Daniel 10:4 On the twenty-fourth day of the first month, as I was standingthat is, the Tigris)
Daniel 10:5  gold from Uphaz around his waist.
Daniel 10:6 His body was like the sound of his words like the sound of a multitude.
Daniel 10:7  And I, Daniel, alone saw the vision, for the men who were with me did not see the vision, but a great trembling fell upon them, and they fled to hide themselves.
Daniel 10:8 So I was left alone and saw this great vision, and and I retained no strength.
Daniel 10:9 Then I heard the sound of his words, with my face to the ground.
Daniel 10:10 And behold, a hand touched me and set me trembling on my hands and knees.
Daniel 10:11 And he said to me, “O Daniel, now I have been sent to you.” And when he had spoken this word to me, I stood up trembling.
Daniel 10:12 Then he said to me, and I have come because of your words.
Daniel 10:13  Michael, one of the chief princes, came to help me, for I was left there with the kings of Persia,
Daniel 10:14  the vision is for days yet to come.”
Daniel 10:15 When he had spoken to me according to these words, and was mute.
Daniel 10:16 And behold, I retain no strength.
Daniel 10:17 How can my lord's servant talk with my lord? For now no strength remains in me, and no breath is left in me.”
Daniel 10:18 Again touched me and strengthened me.
Daniel 10:19 And he said, fear not, peace be with you; be strong and of good courage.” And as he spoke to me, I was strengthened and said, “Let my lord speak, for you have strengthened me.”
Daniel 10:20 Then he said, “Do you know why I have come to you? But now I will return to fight against the Greece will come.
Daniel 10:21 But I will tell you Michael, your prince.
Daniel 11:1 “And as for me, Darius the Mede, I stood up to confirm and strengthen him.
Daniel 11:2 “And now I will show you the truth. Behold, three more kings shall arise in Persia, and a fourth shall be far richer than all of them. And when he has become strong through his riches, he shall stir up all against the kingdom of Greece.
Daniel 11:3 Then do as he wills.
Daniel 11:4 And as soon as he has arisen, not to his posterity, nor according to the authority with which he ruled, for his kingdom shall be plucked up and go to others besides these.
Daniel 11:5 “Then the king of the south shall be strong, but one of his princes shall be stronger than he and shall rule, and his authority shall be a great authority.
Daniel 11:6 After some years  her in those times.
Daniel 11:7 “And from a branch from her roots one shall arise in his place. He shall come against the army and enter the fortress of the king of the north, and he shall deal with them and shall prevail.
Daniel 11:8 He shall also carry off to Egypt their gods with their metal images and their precious vessels of silver and gold, and for some years he shall refrain from attacking the king of the north.
Daniel 11:9 Then the latter shall come into the realm of the king of the south but shall return to his own land.
Daniel 11:10 “His sons shall wage war and assemble a multitude of great forces, which shall keep coming fortress.
Daniel 11:11 Then the king of the south, And he shall raise a great multitude, but it shall be given into his hand.
Daniel 11:12 And when the multitude is taken away, his heart shall be exalted, and he shall cast down tens of thousands, but he shall not prevail.
Daniel 11:13 For the king of the north shall again  he shall come on with a great army and abundant supplies.
Daniel 11:14 “In those times many shall rise against the king of the south, and the violent among your own people shall lift themselves up in order to fulfill the vision, but they shall fail.
Daniel 11:15 Then the king of the north shall come and throw up siegeworks and take a well-fortified city. And the forces of the south shall not stand, or even his best troops, for there shall be no strength to stand.
Daniel 11:16 But he who comes against him shall the glorious land, with destruction in his hand.
Daniel 11:17 He shall  but it shall not stand or be to his advantage.
Daniel 11:18 Afterward he shall turn his face to the coastlands and shall capture many of them, but a commander shall put an end to his insolence. Indeed, shall turn his insolence back upon him.
Daniel 11:19 Then he shall turn his face back toward the and shall not be found.
Daniel 11:20 “Then shall arise in his place one who shall send an exactor of tribute for the glory of the kingdom. But within a few days he shall be broken, neither in anger nor in battle.
Daniel 11:21 In his place shall arise a contemptible person to whom royal majesty has not been given. by flatteries.
Daniel 11:22 Armies shall be utterly swept away before him and broken, even the prince of the covenant.
Daniel 11:23 And from the time that an alliance is made with him he shall act deceitfully, and he shall become strong with a small people.
Daniel 11:24   of the province, and he shall do what neither his fathers nor his fathers' fathers have done, scattering among them plunder, spoil, and goods. He shall devise plans against strongholds, but only for a time.
Daniel 11:25 And he shall stir up his power and his heart against the king of the south with a great army. And the king of the south shall wage war with an exceedingly great and mighty army, but he shall not stand, for plots shall be devised against him.
Daniel 11:26 Even those who eat his food shall break him. His army shall be swept away, and many shall fall down slain.
Daniel 11:27 And as for the two kings, their hearts shall be bent on doing evil. They shall speak lies at the same table, but to no avail, for the end is yet to be at the time appointed.
Daniel 11:28 And he shall return to his land with great wealth, but his heart shall be set against the holy covenant. And he shall work his will and return to his own land.
Daniel 11:29 “At the time appointed he shall return and come into the south, but it shall not be this time as it was before.
Daniel 11:30 For ships of take action against the holy covenant. He shall turn back and pay attention to those who forsake the holy covenant.
Daniel 11:31 Forces from him shall appear and they shall set up the abomination that makes desolate.
Daniel 11:32 He shall seduce with flattery those who violate the covenant, but the people who know their God shall stand firm and take action.
Daniel 11:33  And the wise among the people shall make many understand, though for some days they shall stumble by sword and flame, by captivity and plunder.
Daniel 11:34 When they stumble, they shall receive a little help. And many shall join themselves to them with flattery,
Daniel 11:35 and some of the wise shall stumble, so that they may be refined, for it still awaits the appointed time.
Daniel 11:36 “And the king shall till the indignation is accomplished; for what is decreed shall be done.
Daniel 11:37 He shall pay no attention to the gods of his fathers, or to the one beloved by women. He shall not pay attention to any other god, for he shall magnify himself above all.
Daniel 11:38 He shall honor the god of fortresses instead of these. A god whom his fathers did not know he shall honor with gold and silver, with precious stones and costly gifts.
Daniel 11:39 He shall deal with the strongest fortresses with the help of a foreign god. Those who acknowledge him he shall load with honor. He shall make them rulers over many and
Daniel 11:40  shall overflow and pass through.
Daniel 11:41 He shall come into Ammonites.
Daniel 11:42 He shall stretch out his hand against the countries, and the land of Egypt shall not escape.
Daniel 11:43 He shall become ruler of the treasures of gold and of silver, and all the precious things of Egypt, and the Cushites shall follow in his train.
Daniel 11:44 But news from the east and the north shall alarm him, and he shall go out with great fury to destroy and devote many to destruction.
Daniel 11:45 And he shall pitch his palatial tents between the sea and the glorious holy mountain. Yet he shall come to his end, with none to help him.
Daniel 12:1 “At that time shall arise everyone whose name shall be found written in the book.
Daniel 12:2 And many of those who some to shame and everlasting contempt.
Daniel 12:3  those who turn many to righteousness, like the stars forever and ever.
Daniel 12:4 But you, Daniel, Many shall run to and fro, and knowledge shall increase.”
Daniel 12:5 Then I, Daniel, looked, and behold, two others stood, one on this bank of the stream and one on that bank of the stream.
Daniel 12:6 And someone said to “How long shall it be till the end of these wonders?”
Daniel 12:7 And I heard the holy people comes to an end all these things would be finished.
Daniel 12:8 I heard, but I did not understand. Then I said, “O my lord, what shall be the outcome of these things?”
Daniel 12:9 He said, for the words are shut up and sealed until the time of the end.
Daniel 12:10  but those who are wise shall understand.
Daniel 12:11 And from the time that the abomination that makes desolate is set up, there shall be 1,290 days.
Daniel 12:12  Blessed is he who waits and arrives at the 1,335 days.
Daniel 12:13  the end of the days.”
Hosea 1:1 The word of the LORD that came to Hosea, the son of Beeri, Jeroboam the son of Joash, king of Israel.
Hosea 1:2 When the LORD first spoke through Hosea, the LORD said to Hosea, the land commits great whoredom by forsaking the LORD.”
Hosea 1:3 So he went and took Gomer, the daughter of Diblaim, and she conceived and bore him a son.
Hosea 1:4 And the LORD said to him, “Call his name Jezreel, for in just a little while I will put an end to the kingdom of the house of Israel.
Hosea 1:5 And on that day in the Valley of Jezreel.”
Hosea 1:6 She conceived again and bore a daughter. And the LORD said to him, I will no more have mercy on the house of Israel, to forgive them at all.
Hosea 1:7 But will not save them by bow or by sword or by war or by horses or by horsemen.”
Hosea 1:8 When she had weaned No Mercy, she conceived and bore a son.
Hosea 1:9 And the LORD said,
Hosea 1:10  the living God.”
Hosea 1:11 And they shall appoint for themselves one head. And they shall go up from the land, for great shall be the day of Jezreel.
Hosea 2:1
Hosea 2:2 “Plead with your mother, plead — for her whoring from her face, and her adultery from between her breasts;
Hosea 2:3 lest make her like a wilderness, and make her like a parched land, and kill her with thirst.
Hosea 2:4 because they are children of whoredom.
Hosea 2:5 For give me my bread and my water, my wool and my flax, my oil and my drink.’
Hosea 2:6 Therefore I will build a wall against her, so that she cannot find her paths.
Hosea 2:7 She shall pursue her lovers but not overtake them, and she shall seek them but shall not find them. for it was better for me then than now.’
Hosea 2:8 Andwhich they used for Baal.
Hosea 2:9 Therefore I will take away my wool and my flax, which were to cover her nakedness.
Hosea 2:10 Now I will uncover her lewdness in the sight of her lovers, and no one shall rescue her out of my hand.
Hosea 2:11  appointed feasts.
Hosea 2:12 Andand the beasts of the field shall devour them.
Hosea 2:13 And adorned herself with her ring and jewelry, and went after her lovers and forgot me, declares the LORD.
Hosea 2:14 “Therefore, behold, I will allure her, and speak tenderly to her.
Hosea 2:15 And there I will give her her vineyards and make the Valley of Achor as in the days of her youth, as at the time when she came out of the land of Egypt.
Hosea 2:16 “And in that day, declares the LORD, you will call me ‘My Husband,’ and no longer will you call me ‘My Baal.’
Hosea 2:17 For I will remove the names of the Baals from her mouth, and they shall be remembered by name no more.
Hosea 2:18 And safety.
Hosea 2:19 And I will betroth you to me I will betroth you to me in righteousness and in justice, in steadfast love and in mercy.
Hosea 2:20  you shall know the LORD.
Hosea 2:21 “And I will answer, declares the LORD, I will answer the heavens, and they shall answer the earth,
Hosea 2:22 and the earth shall answer the grain, the wine, and the oil, and they shall answer
Hosea 2:23 and ‘You are my people’; and he shall say, ‘You are my God.’”
Hosea 3:1 And the LORD said to me, “Go again, love a woman who is loved by another man and is an adulteress, even as the LORD loves the children of Israel, though they turn to other gods and love cakes of raisins.”
Hosea 3:2 So I bought her for fifteen shekels of silver and a  of barley.
Hosea 3:3 And I said to her, “You must dwell as mine for many days. You shall not play the whore, or belong to another man; so will I also be to you.”
Hosea 3:4 For the children of Israel household gods.
Hosea 3:5 Afterward latter days.
Hosea 4:1  no knowledge of God in the land;
Hosea 4:2  bloodshed follows bloodshed.
Hosea 4:3 Thereforeand even the fish of the sea are taken away.
Hosea 4:4
Hosea 4:5 You shall stumble by day; the prophet also shall stumble with you by night; and I will destroy your mother.
Hosea 4:6 My people are destroyedI also will forget your children.
Hosea 4:7 I will change their glory into shame.
Hosea 4:8   of my people; they are greedy for their iniquity.
Hosea 4:9  And it shall be like people, like priest; I will punish them for their ways and repay them for their deeds.
Hosea 4:10  They shall eat, but not be satisfied; they shall play the whore, but not multiply, because they have forsaken the LORD to cherish
Hosea 4:11 whoredom, wine, and new wine, which take away the understanding.
Hosea 4:12 My people a spirit of whoredom has led them astray, and they have left their God to play the whore.
Hosea 4:13 under oak, poplar, and terebinth, because their shade is good. Therefore your daughters play the whore, and your brides commit adultery.
Hosea 4:14 I will not punish your daughters when they play the whore, nor your brides when they commit adultery; for without understanding shall come to ruin.
Hosea 4:15 Though you play the whore, O Beth-aven, and swear not, “As the LORD lives.”
Hosea 4:16 Like a stubborn heifer, Israel is stubborn; can the LORD now feed them like a lamb in a broad pasture?
Hosea 4:17 leave him alone.
Hosea 4:18 When their drink is gone, they give themselves to whoring;   dearly love shame.
Hosea 4:19  be ashamed because of their sacrifices.
Hosea 5:1  Tabor.
Hosea 5:2 And I will discipline all of them.
Hosea 5:3  I know Ephraim, and Israel is not hidden from me; for now, O Ephraim, you have played the whore; Israel is defiled.
Hosea 5:4  the spirit of whoredom is within them, and they know not the LORD.
Hosea 5:5 Judah also shall stumble with them.
Hosea 5:6 he has withdrawn from them.
Hosea 5:7  They have dealt faithlessly with the LORD; for they have borne alien children. Now the new moon shall devour them with their fields.
Hosea 5:8   O Benjamin!
Hosea 5:9 Ephraim shall become a desolation in the day of punishment; among the tribes of Israel I make known what is sure.
Hosea 5:10 The princes of Judah have become like those who move the landmark; upon them I will pour out my wrath like water.
Hosea 5:11 Ephraim is
Hosea 5:12 But I am like dry rot to the house of Judah.
Hosea 5:13 When Ephraim saw his sickness, and Judah your wound.
Hosea 5:14 For I will beI, even I, will tear and go away; I will carry off, and no one shall rescue.
Hosea 5:15  in their distress earnestly seek me.
Hosea 6:1 “Come, let us he will bind us up.
Hosea 6:2 After two days he will revive us; on the third day he will raise us up, that we may live before him.
Hosea 6:3 as the spring rains that water the earth.”
Hosea 6:4 What shall I do with you,like the dew that goes early away.
Hosea 6:5 Therefore I have hewn them by the prophets; I have slain them by the words of my mouth, and my judgment goes forth as the light.
Hosea 6:6 Forthe knowledge of God rather than burnt offerings.
Hosea 6:7 Butthere they dealt faithlessly with me.
Hosea 6:8 tracked with blood.
Hosea 6:9 As robbers Shechem; they commit villainy.
Hosea 6:10 In the house of Israel I have seen a horrible thing;  Israel is defiled.
Hosea 6:11 For you also, O I restore the fortunes of my people,
Hosea 7:1  they deal falsely; the thief breaks in, and the bandits raid outside.
Hosea 7:2 But they do not consider thatthey are before my face.
Hosea 7:3 By their evil the king glad, and the princes by their treachery.
Hosea 7:4  They are all adulterers; they are like a heated oven whose baker ceases to stir the fire, from the kneading of the dough until it is leavened.
Hosea 7:5 On the day of our king, the princes became sick with the heat of wine; he stretched out his hand with mockers.
Hosea 7:6 For with hearts like an oven they approach their intrigue; all night their anger smolders; in the morning it blazes like a flaming fire.
Hosea 7:7 All of them are hot as an oven, and they devour their rulers. All have fallen, and none of them calls upon me.
Hosea 7:8 Ephraim mixes himself with the peoples; Ephraim is a cake not turned.
Hosea 7:9  he knows it not.
Hosea 7:10 yet they do not return to the LORD their God, nor seek him, for all this.
Hosea 7:11 Ephraim is like a dove,  Assyria.
Hosea 7:12 As they go, according to the report made to their congregation.
Hosea 7:13  they speak lies against me.
Hosea 7:14  they wail upon their beds; for grain and wine they gash themselves; they rebel against me.
Hosea 7:15 Although I trained and strengthened their arms, yet they devise evil against me.
Hosea 7:16 They in the land of Egypt.
Hosea 8:1 Set they have transgressed my covenant and rebelled against my law.
Hosea 8:2 To me they cry, “My God, we — Israel — know you.”
Hosea 8:3 Israel has spurned the good; the enemy shall pursue him.
Hosea 8:4  but not through me. They set up princes, but I knew it not. With their silver and gold they made idols for their own destruction.
Hosea 8:5 How long will they be incapable of innocence?
Hosea 8:6 For it is from Israel; a craftsman made it; it is not God.
Hosea 8:7 Forstrangers would devour it.
Hosea 8:8  a useless vessel.
Hosea 8:9 Fora wild donkey wandering alone; Ephraim has hired lovers.
Hosea 8:10 Though they hire allies among the nations, I will soon gather them up. And shall soon writhe because of the tribute.
Hosea 8:11 Because Ephraim has multiplied altars for sinning, they have become to him altars for sinning.
Hosea 8:12  Were I to write for him my laws by the ten thousands, they would be regarded as a strange thing.
Hosea 8:13 As for my sacrificial offerings, they shall return to Egypt.
Hosea 8:14 For I will send a fire upon his cities, and it shall devour her strongholds.
Hosea 9:1 Rejoice not, O Israel! Exult not like the peoples; You have loved a prostitute's wages on all threshing floors.
Hosea 9:2  the new wine shall fail them.
Hosea 9:3 They shall not remain in they shall eat unclean food in Assyria.
Hosea 9:4 it shall not come to the house of the LORD.
Hosea 9:5  What will you do on the day of the appointed festival, and on the day of the feast of the LORD?
Hosea 9:6 For behold, they are going away from destruction; butthorns shall be in their tents.
Hosea 9:7 The prophet is a fool; the man of the spirit is mad, because of your great iniquity and great hatred.
Hosea 9:8 The prophet is a fowler's snare is on all his ways, and hatred in the house of his God.
Hosea 9:9 he will remember their iniquity; he will punish their sins.
Hosea 9:10 Like grapes in the wilderness,  became detestable like the thing they loved.
Hosea 9:11 Ephraim'sno birth, no pregnancy, no conception!
Hosea 9:12  I depart from them!
Hosea 9:13 Ephraim,
Hosea 9:14 Give them, O LORD — what will you give? Give them a miscarrying womb and dry breasts.
Hosea 9:15 Every evil of theirs is in rebels.
Hosea 9:16 Ephraim is stricken; I will put their beloved children to death.
Hosea 9:17 they shall be wanderers among the nations.
Hosea 10:1 the more altars he built; as his country improved, he improved his pillars.
Hosea 10:2 Their heart is false; now they must bear their guilt. The LORD  will break down their altars and destroy their pillars.
Hosea 10:3 For now they will say: “We have no king, for we do not fear the LORD; and a king — what could he do for us?”
Hosea 10:4 They utterin the furrows of the field.
Hosea 10:5 The inhabitants of Samaria tremble for  from them.
Hosea 10:6
Hosea 10:7  Samaria's king shall perish like a twig on the face of the waters.
Hosea 10:8 The high places of they shall say to the mountains, “Cover us,” and to the hills, “Fall on us.”
Hosea 10:9 From  overtake them in Gibeah?
Hosea 10:10  their double iniquity.
Hosea 10:11 Ephraim was a trained calf thatJudah must plow; Jacob must harrow for himself.
Hosea 10:12  rain righteousness upon you.
Hosea 10:13  You have plowed iniquity; you have reaped injustice; you have eaten the fruit of lies. Because you have trusted in your own way and in the multitude of your warriors,
Hosea 10:14 thereforemothers were dashed in pieces with their children.
Hosea 10:15 Thus it shall be done to you, O the king of Israel shall be utterly cut off.
Hosea 11:1  my son.
Hosea 11:2 they kept sacrificing to the Baals and burning offerings to idols.
Hosea 11:3 Yet it was I healed them.
Hosea 11:4  I bent down to them and fed them.
Hosea 11:5  they have refused to return to me.
Hosea 11:6  because of their own counsels.
Hosea 11:7 My people are bent they call out to the Most High, he shall not raise them up at all.
Hosea 11:8 How can I give you up, O Ephraim? How can I hand you over, O Israel? My heart recoils within me; my compassion grows warm and tender.
Hosea 11:9 I will not execute my burning anger; I will not again destroy Ephraim;
Hosea 11:10  from the west;
Hosea 11:11 they shall come trembling like birds from the land of Assyria, and I will return them to their homes, declares the LORD.
Hosea 11:12  has surrounded me with lies, and the house of Israel with deceit, but Judah still walks with God and is faithful to the Holy One.
Hosea 12:1 Ephraim feeds on the wind and pursues oil is carried to Egypt.
Hosea 12:2  The LORD has an indictment against Judah and will punish Jacob according to his ways; he will repay him according to his deeds.
Hosea 12:3  In the womb he took his brother by the heel, and in his manhood he strove with God.
Hosea 12:4 He strove with the angel and prevailed; he wept and sought his favor.   at Bethel, and there God spoke with us —
Hosea 12:5 the LORD, the God of hosts, the LORD is his memorial name:
Hosea 12:6 “So you,hold fast to love and justice, and wait continually for your God.”
Hosea 12:7 A merchant, in whose hands are to oppress.
Hosea 12:8 Ephraim has said, “Ah, but they cannot find in me iniquity or sin.”
Hosea 12:9  dwell in tents, as in the days of the appointed feast.
Hosea 12:10  visions, and through the prophets gave parables.
Hosea 12:11 on the furrows of the field.
Hosea 12:12  served for a wife, and for a wife he guarded sheep.
Hosea 12:13 By the LORD brought Israel up from Egypt, and by a prophet he was guarded.
Hosea 12:14 and will repay him for his disgraceful deeds.
Hosea 13:1 When Ephraim spoke, there was trembling;  through Baal and died.
Hosea 13:2 And now they sin more and more, and kiss calves!”
Hosea 13:3 Therefore they shall be like smoke from a window.
Hosea 13:4 But besides me there is no savior.
Hosea 13:5  It was I who knew you in the wilderness, in the land of drought;
Hosea 13:6 therefore they forgot me.
Hosea 13:7 Solike a leopard I will lurk beside the way.
Hosea 13:8 I will fall upon themas a wild beast would rip them open.
Hosea 13:9 He destroys your helper.
Hosea 13:10  you said, “Give me a king and princes”?
Hosea 13:11  I took him away in my wrath.
Hosea 13:12 The iniquity of Ephraim is kept in store.
Hosea 13:13 at the opening of the womb.
Hosea 13:14 Compassion is hidden from my eyes.
Hosea 13:15 Though his treasury of every precious thing.
Hosea 13:16  pregnant women ripped open.
Hosea 14:1  you have stumbled because of your iniquity.
Hosea 14:2 Take with you words and return to the LORD; say to him, “Take away all iniquity; accept  of our lips.
Hosea 14:3 In you the orphan finds mercy.”
Hosea 14:4 II will love them freely, for my anger has turned from them.
Hosea 14:5  of Lebanon;
Hosea 14:6 his shoots shall spread out; his beauty shall be like the olive, and his fragrance like Lebanon.
Hosea 14:7 They shall return and  shadow; they shall flourish like the grain; they shall blossom like the vine; their fame shall be like the wine of Lebanon.
Hosea 14:8 Ofrom me comes your fruit.
Hosea 14:9 but transgressors stumble in them.
Joel 1:1 The word of the LORD that came to Joel, the son of Pethuel:
Joel 1:2 Has such a thing happened in your days, or in the days of your fathers?
Joel 1:3  Tell your children of it, and let your children tell their children, and their children to another generation.
Joel 1:4 Whatthe destroying locust has eaten.
Joel 1:5 Awake, you drunkards, and weep, and the sweet wine, for it is cut off from your mouth.
Joel 1:6 Forits teeth are lions' teeth, and it has the fangs of a lioness.
Joel 1:7 It has laid waste my vine and splintered my fig tree; it has stripped off their bark and thrown it down; their branches are made white.
Joel 1:8 Lament like a virgin wearing sackcloth for the bridegroom of her youth.
Joel 1:9 the ministers of the LORD.
Joel 1:10 The fields are destroyed, the wine dries up, the oil languishes.
Joel 1:11 because the harvest of the field has perished.
Joel 1:12 The vine dries up;  gladness dries up from the children of man.
Joel 1:13 Because grain offering and drink offering are withheld from the house of your God.
Joel 1:14  all the inhabitants of the land to the house of the LORD your God, and cry out to the LORD.
Joel 1:15 Alas for the day!   it comes.
Joel 1:16 Is not the food cut off before our eyes, joy and gladness from the house of our God?
Joel 1:17  the grain has dried up.
Joel 1:18 How
Joel 1:19 To you,and flame has burned all the trees of the field.
Joel 1:20 Even the beasts of the fieldand fire has devoured the pastures of the wilderness.
Joel 2:1  the day of the LORD is coming; it is near,
Joel 2:2 their like has never been before, nor will be again after them through the years of all generations.
Joel 2:3  behind them a desolate wilderness, and nothing escapes them.
Joel 2:4  Their appearance is like the appearance of horses, and like war horses they run.
Joel 2:5 like a powerful army drawn up for battle.
Joel 2:6 Before them peoples are in anguish; all faces grow pale.
Joel 2:7 Like warriors they charge; like soldiers they scale the wall. They march each on his way; they do not swerve from their paths.
Joel 2:8 They do not jostle one another; each marches in his path; they burst through the weapons and are not halted.
Joel 2:9  like a thief.
Joel 2:10 The sun and the moon are darkened, and the stars withdraw their shining.
Joel 2:11 who can endure it?
Joel 2:12 “Yet even now,” declares the LORD, with fasting, with weeping, and with mourning;
Joel 2:13 andand he relents over disaster.
Joel 2:14 a grain offering and a drink offering for the LORD your God?
Joel 2:15 consecrate a fast; call a solemn assembly;
Joel 2:16 gather the people. Let the bridegroom leave his room, and the bride her chamber.
Joel 2:17 Why should they say among the peoples, ‘Where is their God?’”
Joel 2:18 and had pity on his people.
Joel 2:19 The LORD answered and said to his people, “Behold,and you will be satisfied; and I will no more make you a reproach among the nations.
Joel 2:20 “I will remove the northerner far from you, and drive him into a parched and desolate land, his vanguardthe stench and foul smell of him will rise, for he has done great things.
Joel 2:21 “Fear not, O land; be glad and rejoice, for the LORD has done great things!
Joel 2:22 Fear not, vine give their full yield.
Joel 2:23  the latter rain, as before.
Joel 2:24 “The threshing floors shall be full of grain; the vats shall overflow with wine and oil.
Joel 2:25 I will restoremy great army, which I sent among you.
Joel 2:26  shall never again be put to shame.
Joel 2:27  shall never again be put to shame.
Joel 2:28  your daughters shall prophesy, your old men shall dream dreams, and your young men shall see visions.
Joel 2:29  Even on the male and female servants in those days I will pour out my Spirit.
Joel 2:30 “And I will show on the earth, blood and fire and columns of smoke.
Joel 2:31  before the great and awesome day of the LORD comes.
Joel 2:32 And it shall come to pass that the survivors shall be those whom the LORD calls.
Joel 3:1  in those days and at that time, when I restore the fortunes of Judah and Jerusalem,
Joel 3:2  I will enter into judgment with them there, on behalf of my people and my heritage Israel, because they have scattered them among the nations and have divided up my land,
Joel 3:3 and have cast lots for my people, and have traded a boy for a prostitute, and have sold a girl for wine and have drunk it.
Joel 3:4 “What are you to me, I will return your payment on your own head swiftly and speedily.
Joel 3:5 For
Joel 3:6 You have sold the people of Judah and Jerusalem to the Greeks in order to remove them far from their own border.
Joel 3:7 Behold, I will stir them up from the place to which you have sold them, and I will return your payment on your own head.
Joel 3:8 I will sell your sons and your daughters into the hand of the people of Judah, and they will sell them to the Sabeans, to a nation far away, for the LORD has spoken.”
Joel 3:9 Proclaim this among the nations:   stir up the mighty men. Let all the men of war draw near; let them come up.
Joel 3:10  your pruning hooks into spears; let the weak say, “I am a warrior.”
Joel 3:11 Bring down your warriors, O LORD.
Joel 3:12 Let the nations stir themselves up and come up tofor there I will sit to judge all the surrounding nations.
Joel 3:13 for the winepress is full. The vats overflow, for their evil is great.
Joel 3:14 Multitudes, multitudes, in the valley of decision! For the day of the LORD is near in the valley of decision.
Joel 3:15  The sun and the moon are darkened, and the stars withdraw their shining.
Joel 3:16  a refuge to his people, a stronghold to the people of Israel.
Joel 3:17  strangers shall never again pass through it.
Joel 3:18 “And in that day  Shittim.
Joel 3:19 for the violence done to the people of Judah, because they have shed innocent blood in their land.
Joel 3:20  But Judah shall be inhabited forever, and Jerusalem to all generations.
Joel 3:21 for the LORD dwells in Zion.”
Amos 1:1 The words of Amos, who was among the the earthquake.
Amos 1:2 And he said:  Carmel withers.”
Amos 1:3 Thus says the LORD:  Gilead with threshing sledges of iron.
Amos 1:4  Ben-hadad.
Amos 1:5 I will Kir,” says the LORD.
Amos 1:6 Thus says the LORD:  they carried into exile a whole people to deliver them up to Edom.
Amos 1:7 So I will send a fire upon the wall of Gaza, and it shall devour her strongholds.
Amos 1:8 I will cut off the inhabitants from Ashdod, and him who holds the scepter from Ashkelon; I will turn my hand against Ekron, and the remnant of the Philistines shall perish,” says the Lord GOD.
Amos 1:9 Thus says the LORD:  Tyre, and for four, I will not revoke the punishment, because they delivered up a whole people to Edom, and did not remember the covenant of brotherhood.
Amos 1:10 So I will send a fire upon the wall of Tyre, and it shall devour her strongholds.”
Amos 1:11 Thus says the LORD: and he kept his wrath forever.
Amos 1:12 So I will send a fire upon Bozrah.”
Amos 1:13 Thus says the LORD:  Gilead, that they might enlarge their border.
Amos 1:14 So I will kindle a fire in the wall ofwith a tempest in the day of the whirlwind;
Amos 1:15 and  together,” says the LORD.
Amos 2:1 Thus says the LORD:  he burned to lime the bones of the king of Edom.
Amos 2:2 So I will send a fire upon Moab, and it shall devour the strongholds of Kerioth, and Moab shall die amid uproar, amid shouting and the sound of the trumpet;
Amos 2:3   with him,” says the LORD.
Amos 2:4 Thus says the LORD:  their lies have led them astray, those after which their fathers walked.
Amos 2:5 So I will send a fire upon Judah, and it shall devour the strongholds of Jerusalem.”
Amos 2:6 Thus says the LORD:  silver, and the needy for a pair of sandals —
Amos 2:7 those who trample the head of the poora man and his father go in to the same girl, so that my holy name is profaned;
Amos 2:8 they lay themselves down beside every altar on garments taken in pledge, and in the house of their God they drink the wine of those who have been fined.
Amos 2:9 “YetI destroyed his fruit above and his roots beneath.
Amos 2:10 to possess the land of the Amorite.
Amos 2:11 And I raised up some of your sons for prophets, and some of your young men for Nazirites. Is it not indeed so, O people of Israel?” declares the LORD.
Amos 2:12 “But you made the Nazirites ‘You shall not prophesy.’
Amos 2:13 “Behold, I will press you down in your place, as a cart full of sheaves presses down.
Amos 2:14 nor shall the mighty save his life;
Amos 2:15 he who handles the bow shall not stand, and he who isnor shall he who rides the horse save his life;
Amos 2:16 and he who is stout of heart among the mighty shall flee away naked in that day,” declares the LORD.
Amos 3:1  Hear this word that the LORD has spoken against you, O people of Israel, against the whole family that I brought up out of the land of Egypt:
Amos 3:2 therefore I will punish you for all your iniquities.
Amos 3:3 “Do two walk together, unless they have agreed to meet?
Amos 3:4 Does a lion roar in the forest, when he has no prey? Does a young lion cry out from his den, if he has taken nothing?
Amos 3:5 Does a bird fall in a snare on the earth, when there is no trap for it? Does a snare spring up from the ground, when it has taken nothing?
Amos 3:6 Does disaster come to a city, unless the LORD has done it?
Amos 3:7 “For the Lord GOD does nothing without revealing his secret to his servants the prophets.
Amos 3:8 The lion has roared; who will not fear? The Lord GOD has spoken; who can but prophesy?”
Amos 3:9 Proclaim to the strongholds in the oppressed in her midst.”
Amos 3:10 “They do not know how to do right,” declares the LORD, “those who store up violence and robbery in their strongholds.”
Amos 3:11 Therefore thus says the Lord GOD:  your strongholds shall be plundered.”
Amos 3:12 Thus says the LORD:  of a bed.
Amos 3:13 “Hear, the God of hosts,
Amos 3:14 “that on the day I punish Israel for his transgressions,  the horns of the altar shall be cut off and fall to the ground.
Amos 3:15   shall come to an end,” declares the LORD.
Amos 4:1 “Hear this word, who crush the needy, who say to your husbands, ‘Bring, that we may drink!’
Amos 4:2 even the last of you with fishhooks.
Amos 4:3  And you shall go out through the breaches, each one straight ahead; and you shall be cast out into Harmon,” declares the LORD.
Amos 4:4  sacrifices every morning, your tithes every three days;
Amos 4:5 offer a sacrifice of thanksgiving offor so you love to do, O people of Israel!” declares the Lord GOD.
Amos 4:6 “I gave you cleanness of teeth in all your cities, andyet you did not return to me,” declares the LORD.
Amos 4:7 “I alsoI would send rain on one city, and send no rain on another city; one field would have rain, and the field on which it did not rain would wither;
Amos 4:8 so two or three citiesyet you did not return to me,” declares the LORD.
Amos 4:9 yet you did not return to me,” declares the LORD.
Amos 4:10 “I sent among you a pestilenceyet you did not return to me,” declares the LORD.
Amos 4:11 “I overthrew some of you, yet you did not return to me,” declares the LORD.
Amos 4:12 “Therefore thus I will do to you, O Israel; because I will do this to you, prepare to meet your God, O Israel!”
Amos 4:13 For behold,the LORD, the God of hosts, is his name!
Amos 5:1 Hear this word that I take up over you in lamentation, O house of Israel:
Amos 5:2 “Fallen, no more to rise, is the virgin Israel; forsaken on her land, with none to raise her up.”
Amos 5:3 For thus says the Lord GOD: “The city that went out a thousand shall have a hundred left, and that which went out a hundred shall have ten left to the house of Israel.”
Amos 5:4 For thus says the LORD to the house of Israel: “Seek me and live;
Amos 5:5 but do not seek Bethel shall come to nothing.”
Amos 5:6  Bethel,
Amos 5:7 O  and cast down righteousness to the earth!
Amos 5:8 He who made thethe LORD is his name;
Amos 5:9  who makes destruction flash forth against the strong, so that destruction comes upon the fortress.
Amos 5:10  abhor him who speaks the truth.
Amos 5:11 Therefore because youyou have planted pleasant vineyards, but you shall not drink their wine.
Amos 5:12 For I know how many are your transgressions and how great are your sins — you who afflict the righteous, who in the gate.
Amos 5:13 Therefore he who is prudent willfor it is an evil time.
Amos 5:14  the God of hosts, will be with you, as you have said.
Amos 5:15 it may be that the LORD, the God of hosts, will be gracious to the remnant of Joseph.
Amos 5:16 Therefore thus says the LORD, to wailing those who are skilled in lamentation,
Amos 5:17 and in all vineyards there shall be wailing, for I will pass through your midst,” says the LORD.
Amos 5:18 Woe to you who desireIt is darkness, and not light,
Amos 5:19  as if a man fled from a lion, and a bear met him, or went into the house and leaned his hand against the wall, and a serpent bit him.
Amos 5:20  Is not the day of the LORD darkness, and not light, and gloom with no brightness in it?
Amos 5:21  “I hate, I despise your feasts, and I take no delight in your solemn assemblies.
Amos 5:22  Even though you offer me your burnt offerings and grain offerings, I will not accept them; and the peace offerings of your fattened animals, I will not look upon them.
Amos 5:23 Take away from me the noise of your songs; to the melody of your harps I will not listen.
Amos 5:24 But let justice roll down like waters, and righteousness like an ever-flowing stream.
Amos 5:25  “Did you bring to me sacrifices and offerings during the forty years in the wilderness, O house of Israel?
Amos 5:26  shall take up Sikkuth your king, and Kiyyun your star-god — your images that you made for yourselves,
Amos 5:27  the God of hosts.
Amos 6:1  the first of the nations, to whom the house of Israel comes!
Amos 6:2 Pass over toAre you better than these kingdoms? Or is their territory greater than your territory,
Amos 6:3 and bring near the seat of violence?
Amos 6:4 “Woe to thoseand calves from the midst of the stall,
Amos 6:5  invent for themselves instruments of music,
Amos 6:6  anoint themselves with the finest oils, but are not grieved over the ruin of Joseph!
Amos 6:7  Therefore they shall now be the first of those who go into exile, and the revelry of those who stretch themselves out shall pass away.”
Amos 6:8 and I will deliver up the city and all that is in it.”
Amos 6:9 And if ten men remain in one house, they shall die.
Amos 6:10 And when one's relative, “Silence! We must not mention the name of the LORD.”
Amos 6:11 For behold, the LORD commands, and the great house shall be struck down into fragments, and the little house into bits.
Amos 6:12 Do horses run on rocks? Does one plow there  —
Amos 6:13 you who rejoice in Lo-debar,  for ourselves?”
Amos 6:14 “For behold, the Arabah.”
Amos 7:1  he was forming locusts when the latter growth was just beginning to sprout, and behold, it was the latter growth after the king's mowings.
Amos 7:2 When they had finished eating the grass of the land, I said, “O Lord GOD, please forgive! How can Jacob stand? He is so small!”
Amos 7:3  The LORD relented concerning this: “It shall not be,” said the LORD.
Amos 7:4  for a judgment by fire, and it devoured the great deep and was eating up the land.
Amos 7:5 Then I said, “O Lord GOD, please cease! How can Jacob stand? He is so small!”
Amos 7:6  The LORD relented concerning this: “This also shall not be,” said the Lord GOD.
Amos 7:7  a plumb line, with a plumb line in his hand.
Amos 7:8 And the LORD said to me,I will never again pass by them;
Amos 7:9  the house of Jeroboam with the sword.”
Amos 7:10 Then Amaziah conspired against you in the midst of the house of Israel. The land is not able to bear all his words.
Amos 7:11 For thus Amos has said, “‘Jeroboam shall die by the sword, and Israel must go into exile away from his land.’”
Amos 7:12 And Amaziah said to Amos, eat bread there, and prophesy there,
Amos 7:13 but it is the king's sanctuary, and it is a temple of the kingdom.”
Amos 7:14 Then Amos answered and said to Amaziah, I was a herdsman and a dresser of sycamore figs.
Amos 7:15  But the LORD took me from following the flock, and the LORD said to me, ‘Go, prophesy to my people Israel.’
Amos 7:16  Isaac.’
Amos 7:17  Israel shall surely go into exile away from its land.’”
Amos 8:1  This is what the Lord GOD showed me: behold, a basket of summer fruit.
Amos 8:2 And he said,  has come upon my people Israel; I will never again pass by them.
Amos 8:3 “Silence!”
Amos 8:4 Hear this, you who trample on the needy and bring the poor of the land to an end,
Amos 8:5 saying, “When will  great and deal deceitfully with false balances,
Amos 8:6 that we may buy the poor for silver and the needy for a pair of sandals and sell the chaff of the wheat?”
Amos 8:7 The LORD has sworn by I will never forget any of their deeds.
Amos 8:8  and sink again, like the Nile of Egypt?”
Amos 8:9 “And on that day,” declares the Lord GOD, “I will make the sun go down at noon and darken the earth in broad daylight.
Amos 8:10 I will make it like the mourning for an only son and the end of it like a bitter day.
Amos 8:11 “Behold, the days are coming,” declares the Lord GOD, “whenbut of hearing the words of the LORD.
Amos 8:12 but they shall not find it.
Amos 8:13  faint for thirst.
Amos 8:14 Those who swear by Beersheba lives,’ they shall fall, and never rise again.”
Amos 9:1 I saw the Lord standing besidenot one of them shall flee away; not one of them shall escape.
Amos 9:2 if they climb up to heaven, from there I will bring them down.
Amos 9:3 If they hide themselves onand if they hide from my sight at the bottom of the sea, there I will command the serpent, and it shall bite them.
Amos 9:4 and I will fix my eyes upon them for evil and not for good.”
Amos 9:5 The Lord GOD of hosts, he who touches the earth andand sinks again, like the Nile of Egypt;
Amos 9:6 the LORD is his name.
Amos 9:7 “Are you not like Kir?
Amos 9:8 Behold,except that I will not utterly destroy the house of Jacob,” declares the LORD.
Amos 9:9 “For behold, I will command, and shake the house of Israel among all the nations as one shakes with a sieve, but no pebble shall fall to the earth.
Amos 9:10 All the sinners of my people shall die by the sword, who say, ‘Disaster shall not overtake or meet us.’
Amos 9:11 “In that day I will raise up the booth of David that is fallen and repair its breaches, and raise up its ruins and rebuild it as in the days of old,
Amos 9:12   declares the LORD who does this.
Amos 9:13 “Behold, the days are coming,” declares the LORD, the mountains shall drip sweet wine, and all the hills shall flow with it.
Amos 9:14 they shall plant vineyards and drink their wine, and they shall make gardens and eat their fruit.
Amos 9:15  that I have given them,” says the LORD your God.
Obadiah 1:1 The vision of Obadiah. Edom Will Be Humbled  Thus says the Lord GODWe have heard a report from the LORD, and a messenger has been sent among the nations: “Rise up! Let us rise against her for battle!”
Obadiah 1:2 Behold, I will make you small among the nations; you shall be utterly despised.
Obadiah 1:3 who say in your heart, “Who will bring me down to the ground?”
Obadiah 1:4 Though you soar aloft like the eagle, though your nest is set among the stars, from there I will bring you down, declares the LORD.
Obadiah 1:5 If grape gatherers came to you, would they not leave gleanings?
Obadiah 1:6  How Esau has been pillaged, his treasures sought out!
Obadiah 1:7 All your allies have driven you to your border; those at peace with you have deceived you; they have prevailed against you;   no understanding.
Obadiah 1:8  Mount Esau?
Obadiah 1:9 And your mighty men shall be dismayed, Mount Esau will be cut off by slaughter.
Obadiah 1:10 and you shall be cut off forever.
Obadiah 1:11 and cast lots for Jerusalem, you were like one of them.
Obadiah 1:12   in the day of distress.
Obadiah 1:13 do not loot his wealth in the day of his calamity.
Obadiah 1:14  Do not stand at the crossroads to cut off his fugitives; do not hand over his survivors in the day of distress.
Obadiah 1:15 ForAs you have done, it shall be done to you; your deeds shall return on your own head.
Obadiah 1:16  my holy mountain, so all the nations shall drink continually; they shall drink and swallow, and shall be as though they had never been.
Obadiah 1:17 and the house of Jacob shall possess their own possessions.
Obadiah 1:18 and there shall be no survivor for the house of Esau, for the LORD has spoken.
Obadiah 1:19 Those of Samaria, and Benjamin shall possess Gilead.
Obadiah 1:20 The exiles of this host of the people of Israel shall possess the land of the Canaanites as far as Zarephath, and the exiles of Jerusalem who are in Sepharad shall possess the cities of the Negeb.
Obadiah 1:21  the kingdom shall be the LORD's.
Jonah 1:1 Now the word of the LORD came to Jonah the son of Amittai, saying,
Jonah 1:2 “Arise, go to  has come up before me.”
Jonah 1:3 But Jonah away from the presence of the LORD.
Jonah 1:4 But to break up.
Jonah 1:5 Then the mariners were afraid, and they hurled the cargo that was in the ship into the sea to lighten it for them. But Jonah had gone down into the inner part of the ship and had lain down and was fast asleep.
Jonah 1:6 So the captain came and said to him, “What do you mean, you sleeper? Arise, Perhaps the god will give a thought to us, that we may not perish.”
Jonah 1:7 And they said to one another, “Come, let us cast lots, that we may know on whose account this evil has come upon us.” So they cast lots, and the lot fell on Jonah.
Jonah 1:8 Then they said to him, “Tell us on whose account this evil has come upon us. What is your occupation? And where do you come from? What is your country? And of what people are you?”
Jonah 1:9 And he said to them, “I am a Hebrew, and I fear who made the sea and the dry land.”
Jonah 1:10 Then the men were exceedingly afraid and said to him, “What is this that you have done!” For the men knew that he was fleeing from the presence of the LORD, because he had told them.
Jonah 1:11 Then they said to him, “What shall we do to you, that the sea may quiet down for us?” For the sea grew more and more tempestuous.
Jonah 1:12 He said to them, “Pick me up and hurl me into the sea; then the sea will quiet down for you, for I know it is because of me that this great tempest has come upon you.”
Jonah 1:13 Nevertheless, the men rowed hard  to get back to dry land, but they could not, for the sea grew more and more tempestuous against them.
Jonah 1:14 Therefore they called out to the LORD, “O LORD, let us not perish for this man's life, and for you, O LORD, have done as it pleased you.”
Jonah 1:15 So they picked up Jonah and hurled him into the sea, and the sea ceased from its raging.
Jonah 1:16 Then the men feared the LORD exceedingly, and made vows.
Jonah 1:17  And Jonah was in the belly of the fish three days and three nights.
Jonah 2:1 Then Jonah prayed to the LORD his God from the belly of the fish,
Jonah 2:2 saying, and you heard my voice.
Jonah 2:3 all your waves and your billows passed over me.
Jonah 2:4 yet I shall again look upon your holy temple.’
Jonah 2:5  to take my life; the deep surrounded me; weeds were wrapped about my head
Jonah 2:6 at the roots of the mountains. I went down to the land whose bars closed upon me forever; yet you brought up my life from the pit, O LORD my God.
Jonah 2:7 When my life was fainting away, I remembered the LORD, and my prayer came to you, into your holy temple.
Jonah 2:8 forsake their hope of steadfast love.
Jonah 2:9 Salvation belongs to the LORD!”
Jonah 2:10 And the LORD spoke to the fish, and it vomited Jonah out upon the dry land.
Jonah 3:1 Then the word of the LORD came to Jonah the second time, saying,
Jonah 3:2 “Arise, go to Nineveh, that great city, and call out against it the message that I tell you.”
Jonah 3:3 So Jonah arose and went to Nineveh, according to the word of the LORD. Now
Jonah 3:4 Jonah began to go into the city, going a day's journey. And he called out, “Yet forty days, and Nineveh shall be overthrown!”
Jonah 3:5  put on sackcloth, from the greatest of them to the least of them.
Jonah 3:6 The word reached and sat in ashes.
Jonah 3:7 And he issued a proclamation and published through Nineveh, beast, herd nor flock, taste anything. Let them not feed or drink water,
Jonah 3:8 but let man and the violence that is in his hands.
Jonah 3:9  and turn from his fierce anger, so that we may not perish.”
Jonah 3:10 When God saw what they did, God relented of the disaster that he had said he would do to them, and he did not do it.
Jonah 4:1 But it displeased Jonah exceedingly, he was angry.
Jonah 4:2 And he prayed to the LORD and said, “O LORD, is not this what I said when I was yet in my country? relenting from disaster.
Jonah 4:3  for it is better for me to die than to live.”
Jonah 4:4 And the LORD said, “Do you do well to be angry?”
Jonah 4:5 Jonah went out of the city and sat to the east of the city and made a booth for himself there. He sat under it in the shade, till he should see what would become of the city.
Jonah 4:6 Now the LORD God appointed a plant  So Jonah was exceedingly glad because of the plant.
Jonah 4:7 But when dawn came up the next day, God appointed a worm that attacked the plant, so that it withered.
Jonah 4:8 When the sun rose, God appointed a scorching “It is better for me to die than to live.”
Jonah 4:9 But God said to Jonah, “Do you do well to be angry for the plant?” And he said, “Yes, I do well to be angry, angry enough to die.”
Jonah 4:10 And the LORD said, “You pity the plant, for which you did not labor, nor did you make it grow, which came into being in a night and perished in a night.
Jonah 4:11 And should not I pity cattle?”
Micah 1:1 The word of the LORD that came to Micah Samaria and Jerusalem.
Micah 1:2 the Lord from his holy temple.
Micah 1:3 For behold, tread upon the high places of the earth.
Micah 1:4 And the mountains will melt under him, and the valleys will split open, like wax before the fire, like waters poured down a steep place.
Micah 1:5 All this is for the high place of Judah? Is it not Jerusalem?
Micah 1:6 Therefore I will make uncover her foundations.
Micah 1:7 All the fee of a prostitute she gathered them, and to the fee of a prostitute they shall return.
Micah 1:8  like the ostriches.
Micah 1:9  For her wound is incurable, and it has come to Judah; it has reached to the gate of my people, to Jerusalem.
Micah 1:10 roll yourselves in the dust.
Micah 1:11 Pass on your way, inhabitants of Shaphir, in nakedness and shame; the inhabitants of Zaanan do not come out; the lamentation of Beth-ezel shall take away from you its standing place.
Micah 1:12 For the inhabitants of Maroth wait anxiously for good, because disaster has come down from the LORD to the gate of Jerusalem.
Micah 1:13 Harness the steeds to the chariots, inhabitants ofthe transgressions of Israel.
Micah 1:14 Therefore you shall give parting gifts Achzib shall be a deceitful thing to the kings of Israel.
Micah 1:15 I will again bring Adullam.
Micah 1:16 make yourselves as bald as the eagle, for they shall go from you into exile.
Micah 2:1  on their beds! When the morning dawns, they perform it, because it is in the power of their hand.
Micah 2:2 They covet fields and seize them, and houses, and take them away; they oppress a man and his house, a man and his inheritance.
Micah 2:3 Therefore thus says the LORD: behold, againstfor it will be a time of disaster.
Micah 2:4 In that dayTo an apostate he allots our fields.”
Micah 2:5 Therefore you will have none to cast the line by lot in the assembly of the LORD.
Micah 2:6 disgrace will not overtake us.”
Micah 2:7 Should this be said, O house of Jacob?   Are these his deeds? Do not my words do good to him who walks uprightly?
Micah 2:8 But lately
Micah 2:9 The women of my people you drive out from their delightful houses; from their young children you take away my splendor forever.
Micah 2:10  uncleanness that destroys with a grievous destruction.
Micah 2:11 If a man should go about and of wine and strong drink,” he would be the preacher for this people!
Micah 2:12 I will surely assemble all of you, O Jacob; like a flock in its pasture, a noisy multitude of men.
Micah 2:13 the LORD at their head.
Micah 3:1 And I said: Is it not for you to know justice? —
Micah 3:2 you  and their flesh from off their bones,
Micah 3:3  who eat the flesh of my people, and flay their skin from off them, and break their bones in pieces and chop them up like meat in a pot, like flesh in a cauldron.
Micah 3:4 he will hide his face from them at that time, because they have made their deeds evil.
Micah 3:5 Thus says the LORD concerningwho cry “Peace” when they have something to eat, but declare war against him who puts nothing into their mouths.
Micah 3:6 ThereforeThe sun shall go down on the prophets, and the day shall be black over them;
Micah 3:7  there is no answer from God.
Micah 3:8 But as for me, his transgression and to Israel his sin.
Micah 3:9 who detest justice and make crooked all that is straight,
Micah 3:10  who build Zion with blood and Jerusalem with iniquity.
Micah 3:11 No disaster shall come upon us.”
Micah 3:12 Therefore because of you  a wooded height.
Micah 4:1 It shall come to pass in the latter days that the mountain of the house of the LORD shall be established as the highest of the mountains, and it shall be lifted up above the hills; and peoples shall flow to it,
Micah 4:2 and many nations shall come, and say: “Come, let us go up to the mountain of the LORD, to the house of the God of Jacob, that he may teach us his ways and that we may walk in his paths.” For out of Zion shall go forth the law,  and the word of the LORD from Jerusalem.
Micah 4:3 He shall judge between many peoples, and shall decide disputes for strong nations far away; and they shall beat their swords into plowshares, and their spears into pruning hooks; nation shall not lift up sword against nation, neither shall they learn war anymore;
Micah 4:4 for the mouth of the LORD of hosts has spoken.
Micah 4:5 For we will walk in the name of the LORD our God forever and ever.
Micah 4:6  lame and gather those who have been driven away and those whom I have afflicted;
Micah 4:7 and the lame I will make in Mount Zion from this time forth and forevermore.
Micah 4:8 And you, O tower of the flock, hill of the daughter of Zion, to you shall it come, the former dominion shall come, kingship for the daughter of Jerusalem.
Micah 4:9 Now why do you cry aloud?  pain seized you like a woman in labor?
Micah 4:10 there the LORD will redeem you from the hand of your enemies.
Micah 4:11 Now let our eyes gaze upon Zion.”
Micah 4:12 But he has gathered them as sheaves to the threshing floor.
Micah 4:13 Arise and thresh, O daughter of Zion, for I will make your horn iron, and I will make your hoofs bronze; you shall beat in pieces many peoples; and the Lord of the whole earth.
Micah 5:1  they strike the judge of Israel on the cheek.
Micah 5:2  from of old, from ancient days.
Micah 5:3 Therefore he shall give them up the rest of his brothers shall return to the people of Israel.
Micah 5:4 And he shall stand he shall be great to the ends of the earth.
Micah 5:5 And he shall be shepherds and eight princes of men;
Micah 5:6 they shall shepherd the land of Assyria with the sword, and the land ofwhen he comes into our land and treads within our border.
Micah 5:7 Then the remnant of Jacob shall be in the midst of many peoples like dew from the LORD, like showers on the grass, which delay not for a man nor wait for the children of man.
Micah 5:8 Andwhich, when it goes through, treads down and tears in pieces, and there is none to deliver.
Micah 5:9 Your hand shall be lifted up over your adversaries, and all your enemies shall be cut off.
Micah 5:10 AndI will cut off your horses from among you and will destroy your chariots;
Micah 5:11  and I will cut off the cities of your land and throw down all your strongholds;
Micah 5:12 and I will cut off you shall have no more tellers of fortunes;
Micah 5:13 andand you shall bow down no more to the work of your hands;
Micah 5:14 and I will root out yourand destroy your cities.
Micah 5:15 And in anger and wrath I will execute vengeance on the nations that did not obey.
Micah 6:1  Hear what the LORD says: Arise, plead your case before the mountains, and let the hills hear your voice.
Micah 6:2  the indictment of the LORD, and you enduring foundations of the earth, for the LORD has an indictment against his people, and he will contend with Israel.
Micah 6:3 “O my people,How have I wearied you? Answer me!
Micah 6:4 For Miriam.
Micah 6:5 O my people, remember the righteous acts of the LORD.”
Micah 6:6  God on high? Shall I come before him with burnt offerings, with calves a year old?
Micah 6:7 Shall I give my firstborn for my transgression, the fruit of my body for the sin of my soul?”
Micah 6:8 He has told you, O man, what is good; and walk humbly with your God?
Micah 6:9 The voice of the LORD cries to the city — and it is sound wisdom to fear
Micah 6:10 Can I forget any longer the treasures  of wickedness in the house of the wicked, and the scant measure that is accursed?
Micah 6:11 Shall I acquit the man with wicked scales and with a bag of deceitful weights?
Micah 6:12 Your their tongue is deceitful in their mouth.
Micah 6:13 Therefore I strike you with a grievous blow, making you desolate because of your sins.
Micah 6:14  You shall eat, but not be satisfied, and there shall be hunger within you; you shall put away, but not preserve, and what you preserve I will give to the sword.
Micah 6:15  You shall sow, but not reap; you shall tread olives, but not anoint yourselves with oil; you shall tread grapes, but not drink wine.
Micah 6:16 For you have kept the statutes of the scorn of my people.”
Micah 7:1 Woe is me! For I have become  first-ripe fig that my soul desires.
Micah 7:2  each hunts the other with a net.
Micah 7:3  the judge ask for a bribe, and the great man utters the evil desire of his soul; thus they weave it together.
Micah 7:4 The best of them isnow their confusion is at hand.
Micah 7:5
Micah 7:6 fora man's enemies are the men of his own house.
Micah 7:7 But as for me, I will look to the LORD; I will wait for the God of my salvation; my God will hear me.
Micah 7:8 when I sit in darkness, the LORD will be a light to me.
Micah 7:9 He will bring me out to the light; I shall look upon his vindication.
Micah 7:10 Thenlike the mire of the streets.
Micah 7:11  A day for the building of your walls! In that day the boundary shall be far extended.
Micah 7:12 In that day theyfrom sea to sea and from mountain to mountain.
Micah 7:13 But the earth will be desolate because of its inhabitants, for the fruit of their deeds.
Micah 7:14   let them graze in Bashan and Gilead as in the days of old.
Micah 7:15   marvelous things.
Micah 7:16 they shall lay their hands on their mouths; their ears shall be deaf;
Micah 7:17 they shall turn in dread to the LORD our God, and they shall be in fear of you.
Micah 7:18 He does not retain his anger forever, because he delights in steadfast love.
Micah 7:19 He will  sins into the depths of the sea.
Micah 7:20 as you have sworn to our fathers from the days of old.
Nahum 1:1  Nineveh. The book of the vision of Nahum of Elkosh.
Nahum 1:2  keeps wrath for his enemies.
Nahum 1:3 His way is in whirlwind and storm, and the clouds are the dust of his feet.
Nahum 1:4  Lebanon withers.
Nahum 1:5 the world and all who dwell in it.
Nahum 1:6  the rocks are broken into pieces by him.
Nahum 1:7 he knows those who take refuge in him.
Nahum 1:8 But will pursue his enemies into darkness.
Nahum 1:9 WhatHe will make a complete end; trouble will not rise up a second time.
Nahum 1:10 For they arethey are consumed like stubble fully dried.
Nahum 1:11 From you came one who plotted evil against the LORD, a worthless counselor.
Nahum 1:12 Thus says the LORD, “Though they are at full strength and many, Though I have afflicted you, I will afflict you no more.
Nahum 1:13 And now I will break his yoke from off you and will burst your bonds apart.”
Nahum 1:14 The LORD has given commandment about you:  for you are vile.”
Nahum 1:15 for never again shall the worthless pass through you; he is utterly cut off.
Nahum 2:1   collect all your strength.
Nahum 2:2 For ruined their branches.
Nahum 2:3 The shield of his mighty men is red; his soldiers are clothed in scarlet. The chariots come with flashing metal on the day he musters them; the cypress spears are brandished.
Nahum 2:4  The chariots race madly through the streets; they rush to and fro through the squares; they gleam like torches; they dart like lightning.
Nahum 2:5 He remembers  is set up.
Nahum 2:6  melts away;
Nahum 2:7 its mistress lamenting, moaning like doves and beating their breasts.
Nahum 2:8  none turns back.
Nahum 2:9 Plunder the silver, plunder the gold! There is no end of the treasure or of the wealth of all precious things.
Nahum 2:10 all faces grow pale!
Nahum 2:11 Where is the lions' den, the feeding place of none to disturb?
Nahum 2:12  strangled prey for his lionesses; he filled his caves with prey and his dens with torn flesh.
Nahum 2:13  the voice of your messengers shall no longer be heard.
Nahum 3:1 Woe tono end to the prey!
Nahum 3:2 The crack of the whip, and bounding chariot!
Nahum 3:3 Horsemen charging, flashing sword andhosts of slain, heaps of corpses, dead bodies without end — they stumble over the bodies!
Nahum 3:4 And all for the countless whorings of thegraceful and of deadly charms, who betrays nations with her whorings, and peoples with her charms.
Nahum 3:5  your nakedness and kingdoms at your shame.
Nahum 3:6 I will throw filth at you and a spectacle.
Nahum 3:7 And all who look at youWhere shall I seek comforters for you?
Nahum 3:8  by the Nile, with water around her, her rampart a sea, and water her wall?
Nahum 3:9   helpers.
Nahum 3:10 and all her great men were bound in chains.
Nahum 3:11 you will seek a refuge from the enemy.
Nahum 3:12 All your fortresses are like fig trees with first-ripe figs — if shaken they fall into the mouth of the eater.
Nahum 3:13 Behold, your troops are women in your midst. The gates of your land are wide open to your enemies; fire has devoured your bars.
Nahum 3:14 strengthen your forts; go into the clay; tread the mortar; take hold of the brick mold!
Nahum 3:15 There will the fire devour you; the sword will cut you off. It will like the grasshopper!
Nahum 3:16 You increasedThe locust spreads its wings and flies away.
Nahum 3:17 Your  like clouds of locusts settling on the fences in a day of cold — when the sun rises, they fly away; no one knows where they are.
Nahum 3:18 Your shepherds are scattered on the mountains with none to gather them.
Nahum 3:19 There is no easing your hurt;  upon whom has not come your unceasing evil?
Habakkuk 1:1  The oracle that Habakkuk the prophet saw.
Habakkuk 1:2 O LORD, “Violence!” and you will not save?
Habakkuk 1:3  and violence are before me; strife and contention arise.
Habakkuk 1:4 For the wicked surround the righteous; so justice goes forth perverted.
Habakkuk 1:5 For I am doing a work in your days that you would not believe if told.
Habakkuk 1:6 For behold,to seize dwellings not their own.
Habakkuk 1:7 They are dreaded and fearsome; their justice and dignity go forth from themselves.
Habakkuk 1:8 they fly like an eagle swift to devour.
Habakkuk 1:9 They all come like sand.
Habakkuk 1:10 At kings they scoff, and at rulers they laugh.  they pile up earth and take it.
Habakkuk 1:11 Then they sweep by like the wind and go on,  whose own might is their god!”
Habakkuk 1:12 Are you not Rock, have established them for reproof.
Habakkuk 1:13 You who are remain silent when the wicked swallows up the man more righteous than he?
Habakkuk 1:14 You make mankind like the fish of the sea, like crawling things that have no ruler.
Habakkuk 1:15  with a hook; he drags them out with his net; he gathers them in his dragnet; so he rejoices and is glad.
Habakkuk 1:16   and his food is rich.
Habakkuk 1:17 Is he then to keep on emptying his net and mercilessly killing nations forever?
Habakkuk 2:1 I will what he will say to me, and what I will answer concerning my complaint.
Habakkuk 2:2 And the LORD answered me: “Write the vision; make it plain on tablets, so he may run who reads it.
Habakkuk 2:3 For stillit will surely come; it will not delay.
Habakkuk 2:4 “Behold, his soul is puffed up; it is not upright within him, but
Habakkuk 2:5 “Moreover, wineHe gathers for himself all nations and collects as his own all peoples.”
Habakkuk 2:6 Shall not all these loads himself with pledges!”
Habakkuk 2:7  Will not your debtors suddenly arise, and those awake who will make you tremble? Then you will be spoil for them.
Habakkuk 2:8  violence to the earth, to cities and all who dwell in them.
Habakkuk 2:9  set his nest on high, to be safe from the reach of harm!
Habakkuk 2:10 You have devised shame for your house by cutting off many peoples; you have forfeited your life.
Habakkuk 2:11 For the stone will cry out from the wall, and the beam from the woodwork respond.
Habakkuk 2:12  who builds a town with blood and founds a city on iniquity!
Habakkuk 2:13 Behold, is it not from the LORD of hosts that peoples labor merely for fire, and nations weary themselves for nothing?
Habakkuk 2:14  the glory of the LORD as the waters cover the sea.
Habakkuk 2:15  at their nakedness!
Habakkuk 2:16 You will have your fill utter shame will come upon your glory!
Habakkuk 2:17 for the blood of man and violence to the earth, to cities and all who dwell in them.
Habakkuk 2:18  speechless idols!
Habakkuk 2:19  there is no breath at all in it.
Habakkuk 2:20 Butlet all the earth keep silence before him.”
Habakkuk 3:1 A prayer of Habakkuk the prophet, according to Shigionoth.
Habakkuk 3:2 O LORD,in wrath remember mercy.
Habakkuk 3:3 God came fromand the Holy One from Mount Paran. Selah His splendor covered the heavens, and the earth was full of his praise.
Habakkuk 3:4  His brightness was like the light; rays flashed from his hand; and there he veiled his power.
Habakkuk 3:5
Habakkuk 3:6 He stood the everlasting ways.
Habakkuk 3:7 I saw the tents ofthe curtains of the land of Midian did tremble.
Habakkuk 3:8 on your chariot of salvation?
Habakkuk 3:9 You stripped the sheath from your bow, calling for many arrows.You split the earth with rivers.
Habakkuk 3:10 it lifted its hands on high.
Habakkuk 3:11 at the light of your arrows as they sped, at the flash of your glittering spear.
Habakkuk 3:12 you threshed the nations in anger.
Habakkuk 3:13   Selah
Habakkuk 3:14 You pierced with his own arrows the heads of his warriors, who came like a whirlwind to scatter me, rejoicing as if to devour the poor in secret.
Habakkuk 3:15  You trampled the sea with your horses, the surging of mighty waters.
Habakkuk 3:16  I will quietly wait for the day of trouble to come upon people who invade us.
Habakkuk 3:17 Though the fig tree should not blossom, nor fruit be on the vines, the produce of the olive fail and the fields yield no food, the flock be cut off from the fold and there be no herd in the stalls,
Habakkuk 3:18 I will take joy in the God of my salvation.
Habakkuk 3:19 GOD, the Lord, is my strength;   instruments.
Zephaniah 1:1 The word of the LORD that came to Zephaniah the son of Cushi, son of Gedaliah, son of Amariah, son of Hezekiah, Josiah the son of Amon, king of Judah.
Zephaniah 1:2  “I will utterly sweep away everything from the face of the earth,” declares the LORD.
Zephaniah 1:3 “I will sweep away cut off mankind from the face of the earth,” declares the LORD.
Zephaniah 1:4 “I will stretch out my hand against Judah and against all the inhabitants of Jerusalem; and I will cut off from this place the remnant of Baal and the name of the idolatrous priests along with the priests,
Zephaniah 1:5
Zephaniah 1:6 who do not seek the LORD or inquire of him.”
Zephaniah 1:7  consecrated his guests.
Zephaniah 1:8 And on the day of the LORD's sacrifice —  all who array themselves in foreign attire.
Zephaniah 1:9 On that day I will punish everyone  house with violence and fraud.
Zephaniah 1:10 “On that day,” declares the LORD, “a cry will be heard from the Second Quarter, a loud crash from the hills.
Zephaniah 1:11   are no more; all who weigh out silver are cut off.
Zephaniah 1:12 At that timethose who say in their hearts, ‘The LORD will not do good, nor will he do ill.’
Zephaniah 1:13 Their goods shall bethough they plant vineyards, they shall not drink wine from them.”
Zephaniah 1:14 the mighty man cries aloud there.
Zephaniah 1:15 a day of clouds and thick darkness,
Zephaniah 1:16 against the fortified cities and against the lofty battlements.
Zephaniah 1:17  like dung.
Zephaniah 1:18 for a full and sudden end he will make of all the inhabitants of the earth.
Zephaniah 2:1 Gather together, yes, gather, O shameless nation,
Zephaniah 2:2 before there comes upon you the burning anger of the LORD, before there comes upon you the day of the anger of the LORD.
Zephaniah 2:3  you may be hidden on the day of the anger of the LORD.
Zephaniah 2:4  For Gaza shall be deserted, and Ashkelon shall become a desolation; Ashdod's people shall be driven out at noon, and Ekron shall be uprooted.
Zephaniah 2:5 Woe to until no inhabitant is left.
Zephaniah 2:6   for shepherds and folds for flocks.
Zephaniah 2:7  restore their fortunes.
Zephaniah 2:8 “I have heard against their territory.
Zephaniah 2:9 Therefore, like Gomorrah, a land possessed by nettles and salt pits, and a waste forever. The remnant of my people shall plunder them, and the survivors of my nation shall possess them.”
Zephaniah 2:10 This shall be their lot in return for their pride, because they taunted and boasted against the people of the LORD of hosts.
Zephaniah 2:11 The LORD will be awesome against them;  the lands of the nations.
Zephaniah 2:12  You also, O Cushites, shall be slain by my sword.
Zephaniah 2:13 And he will stretch out his hand against the north  will make Nineveh a desolation, a dry waste like the desert.
Zephaniah 2:14  her cedar work will be laid bare.
Zephaniah 2:15 This is the exultant city  shakes his fist.
Zephaniah 3:1 Woe to her who is rebellious and defiled, the oppressing city!
Zephaniah 3:2 She listens to no voice; She does not trust in the LORD; she does not draw near to her God.
Zephaniah 3:3  evening wolves that leave nothing till the morning.
Zephaniah 3:4  profane what is holy; they do violence to the law.
Zephaniah 3:5 The LORD within her the unjust knows no shame.
Zephaniah 3:6 so that no one walks in them; their cities have been made desolate, without a man, without an inhabitant.
Zephaniah 3:7  all the more they were eager to make all their deeds corrupt.
Zephaniah 3:8 “Thereforeall the earth shall be consumed.
Zephaniah 3:9 “For at that time I will change the speech of the peoples to a pure speech, that all of them may call upon the name of the LORD and serve him with one accord.
Zephaniah 3:10  of Cush my worshipers, the daughter of my dispersed ones, shall bring my offering.
Zephaniah 3:11  you shall no longer be haughty in my holy mountain.
Zephaniah 3:12 But I will leave in your midst a peopleThey shall seek refuge in the name of the LORD,
Zephaniah 3:13 For they shall graze and lie down, and none shall make them afraid.”
Zephaniah 3:14  Sing aloud, O daughter of Zion; shout, O Israel! Rejoice and exult with all your heart, O daughter of Jerusalem!
Zephaniah 3:15 The LORD has taken away the judgments against you; he has cleared away your enemies.  the LORD, is in your midst; you shall never again fear evil.
Zephaniah 3:16 let not your hands grow weak.
Zephaniah 3:17 he will rejoice over you with gladness; he will quiet you by his love; he will exult over you with loud singing.
Zephaniah 3:18 I will gather those of you who mourn
Zephaniah 3:19 Behold, at that time praise and renown in all the earth.
Zephaniah 3:20 when I restore your fortunes before your eyes,” says the LORD.
Haggai 1:1  Jehozadak, the high priest:
Haggai 1:2 “Thus says the LORD of hosts: These people say the time has not yet come to rebuild the house of the LORD.”
Haggai 1:3 Then the word of the LORD came by the hand of Haggai the prophet,
Haggai 1:4  this house lies in ruins?
Haggai 1:5 Now, therefore, thus says the LORD of hosts: Consider your ways.
Haggai 1:6  earns wages does so to put them into a bag with holes.
Haggai 1:7 “Thus says the LORD of hosts: Consider your ways.
Haggai 1:8 Go up to the hills and bring wood and build the house, that I may be glorified, says the LORD.
Haggai 1:9  that lies in ruins, while each of you busies himself with his own house.
Haggai 1:10 Therefore the heavens above you have withheld the dew, and the earth has withheld its produce.
Haggai 1:11 And on all their labors.”
Haggai 1:12  the remnant of the people, obeyed the voice of the LORD their God, and the words of Haggai the prophet, as the LORD their God had sent him. And the people feared the LORD.
Haggai 1:13 Then Haggai, the messenger of the LORD, spoke to the people with the LORD's message, “I am with you, declares the LORD.”
Haggai 1:14 And worked on the house of the LORD of hosts, their God,
Haggai 1:15  on the twenty-fourth day of the month, in the sixth month, in the second year of Darius the king.
Haggai 2:1  In the seventh month, on the twenty-first day of the month, the word of the LORD came by the hand of Haggai the prophet:
Haggai 2:2 “Speak now to Joshua the son of Jehozadak, the high priest, and to all the remnant of the people, and say,
Haggai 2:3  Is it not as nothing in your eyes?
Haggai 2:4 Yet now I am with you, declares the LORD of hosts,
Haggai 2:5  Fear not.
Haggai 2:6 For thus says the LORD of hosts: I will shake the heavens and the earth and the sea and the dry land.
Haggai 2:7 And I will shake all nations, so that the treasures of all nations shall come in, and I will fill this house with glory, says the LORD of hosts.
Haggai 2:8  The silver is mine, and the gold is mine, declares the LORD of hosts.
Haggai 2:9  in this place I will give peace, declares the LORD of hosts.’”
Haggai 2:10  in the second year of Darius, the word of the LORD came by Haggai the prophet,
Haggai 2:11 “Thus says the LORD of hosts: Ask the priests about the law:
Haggai 2:12 ‘If someone carries “No.”
Haggai 2:13 Then Haggai said, touches any of these, does it become unclean?” The priests answered and said, “It does become unclean.”
Haggai 2:14 Then Haggai answered and said, “So is it with this people, and with this nation before me, declares the LORD, and so with every work of their hands. And what they offer there is unclean.
Haggai 2:15 Now then,  Before stone was placed upon stone in the temple of the LORD,
Haggai 2:16 how did you fare?  one came to a heap of twenty measures, there were but ten. When one came to the wine vat to draw fifty measures, there were but twenty.
Haggai 2:17  yet you did not turn to me, declares the LORD.
Haggai 2:18  consider:
Haggai 2:19  I will bless you.”
Haggai 2:20 The word of the LORD came a second time to Haggai on the twenty-fourth day of the month,
Haggai 2:21 “Speak to I am about to shake the heavens and the earth,
Haggai 2:22 and every one by the sword of his brother.
Haggai 2:23 On that day, declares the LORD of hosts, I will take you, O for I have chosen you, declares the LORD of hosts.”
Zechariah 1:1 In the eighth month, Iddo, saying,
Zechariah 1:2  “The LORD was very angry with your fathers.
Zechariah 1:3 Therefore say to them, Thus declares the LORD of hosts: I will return to you, says the LORD of hosts.
Zechariah 1:4  they did not hear or pay attention to me, declares the LORD.
Zechariah 1:5 Your fathers, where are they? And the prophets, do they live forever?
Zechariah 1:6  deeds, so has he dealt with us.’”
Zechariah 1:7 On the twenty-fourth day of the eleventh month, which is the month of Shebat, in the second year of Darius, the word of the LORD came to the prophet Iddo, saying,
Zechariah 1:8 “I saw in the night, and behold, red, sorrel, and white horses.
Zechariah 1:9 Then I said, ‘What are these, my lord?’ The angel who talked with me said to me, ‘I will show you what they are.’
Zechariah 1:10 So patrol the earth.’
Zechariah 1:11 And they answered remains at rest.’
Zechariah 1:12 Then seventy years?’
Zechariah 1:13 And the LORD answered the angel who talked with me.
Zechariah 1:14 So I am exceedingly jealous for Jerusalem and for Zion.
Zechariah 1:15  they furthered the disaster.
Zechariah 1:16 Therefore, thus says the LORD, the measuring line shall be stretched out over Jerusalem.
Zechariah 1:17 Cry out again, Thus says the LORD of hosts: choose Jerusalem.’”
Zechariah 1:18  four horns!
Zechariah 1:19 And I said to “These are the horns that have scattered Judah, Israel, and Jerusalem.”
Zechariah 1:20 Then the LORD showed me four craftsmen.
Zechariah 1:21 And I said, “What are these coming to do?” He said, who lifted up their horns against the land of Judah to scatter it.”
Zechariah 2:1  a man with a measuring line in his hand!
Zechariah 2:2 Then I said, “Where are you going?” And he said to me, “To measure Jerusalem, to see what is its width and what is its length.”
Zechariah 2:3 And behold, the angel who talked with me came forward, and another angel came forward to meet him
Zechariah 2:4 and said to him, “Run, say to that young man, the multitude of people and livestock in it.
Zechariah 2:5 And I will be to her a wall of fire all around, declares the LORD, and I will be the glory in her midst.’”
Zechariah 2:6 Up! Up! spread you abroad as the four winds of the heavens, declares the LORD.
Zechariah 2:7  Up! Escape to Zion, you who dwell with the daughter of Babylon.
Zechariah 2:8 For thus said the LORD of hosts, after his glory sent me the apple of his eye:
Zechariah 2:9 “Behold, you will know that the LORD of hosts has sent me.
Zechariah 2:10  and I will dwell in your midst, declares the LORD.
Zechariah 2:11  you shall know that the LORD of hosts has sent me to you.
Zechariah 2:12  choose Jerusalem.”
Zechariah 2:13 Be silent, all flesh, before the LORD, for he has roused himself from his holy dwelling.
Zechariah 3:1 Then he showed me  standing at his right hand to accuse him.
Zechariah 3:2 And the LORD said to Satan,  plucked from the fire?”
Zechariah 3:3 Now clothed with filthy garments.
Zechariah 3:4 And the angel said to I will clothe you with pure vestments.”
Zechariah 3:5 And I said, “Let them put a clean turban on his head.” So they put a clean turban on his head and clothed him with garments. And the angel of the LORD was standing by.
Zechariah 3:6 And the angel of the LORD solemnly assured Joshua,
Zechariah 3:7 “Thus says the LORD of hosts: If you will walk in my ways and those who are standing here.
Zechariah 3:8 Hear now, O Joshua the high priest, you and your friends who sit before you, for the Branch.
Zechariah 3:9 For behold, on I will remove the iniquity of this land in a single day.
Zechariah 3:10 In that day, declares the LORD of hosts, every one of you will invite his neighbor to come under his vine and under his fig tree.”
Zechariah 4:1 And and woke me, like a man who is awakened out of his sleep.
Zechariah 4:2 And he said to me, “What do you see?” I said, “I see, and behold, seven lamps on it, with seven lips on each of the lamps that are on the top of it.
Zechariah 4:3 And there are two olive trees by it, one on the right of the bowl and the other on its left.”
Zechariah 4:4 And I said to the angel who talked with me, “What are these, my lord?”
Zechariah 4:5 Then the angel who talked with me answered and said to me, “Do you not know what these are?” I said, “No, my lord.”
Zechariah 4:6 Then he said to me, “This is the word of the LORD to Not by might, nor by power, but by my Spirit, says the LORD of hosts.
Zechariah 4:7 Who are you, the top stone amid shouts of ‘Grace, grace to it!’”
Zechariah 4:8 Then the word of the LORD came to me, saying,
Zechariah 4:9  Then you will know that the LORD of hosts has sent me to you.
Zechariah 4:10  which range through the whole earth.”
Zechariah 4:11 Then I said to him, “What are these two olive trees on the right and the left of the lampstand?”
Zechariah 4:12 And a second time I answered and said to him, “What are these  is poured out?”
Zechariah 4:13 He said to me, “Do you not know what these are?” I said, “No, my lord.”
Zechariah 4:14 Then he said, the Lord of the whole earth.”
Zechariah 5:1 Again I lifted my eyes and saw, and behold, a flying scroll!
Zechariah 5:2 And he said to me, “What do you see?” I answered, “I see a flying
Zechariah 5:3 Then he said to me, “This is  shall be cleaned out according to what is on the other side.
Zechariah 5:4 I will send it out, declares the LORD of hosts, and it shall enter the house of the thief, and the house of consume it, both timber and stones.”
Zechariah 5:5  “Lift your eyes and see what this is that is going out.”
Zechariah 5:6 And I said, “What is it?” He said, “This is  in all the land.”
Zechariah 5:7 And behold, the leaden cover was lifted, and there was a woman sitting in the basket!
Zechariah 5:8 And he said, “This is Wickedness.” And he thrust her back into the basket, and thrust down the leaden weight on its opening.
Zechariah 5:9 Then I lifted my eyes and saw, and behold, two women coming forward! The wind was in their wings. They had wings like the wings of a stork, and they lifted up the basket between earth and heaven.
Zechariah 5:10 Then I said to the angel who talked with me, “Where are they taking the basket?”
Zechariah 5:11 He said to me, “To the land of Shinar, to build a house for it. And when this is prepared, they will set the basket down there on its base.”
Zechariah 6:1 Again I lifted my eyes and saw, and behold, four chariots came out from between two mountains. And the mountains were mountains of bronze.
Zechariah 6:2 The first chariot had black horses,
Zechariah 6:3 the third
Zechariah 6:4 Then I answered and said to the angel who talked with me, “What are these, my lord?”
Zechariah 6:5 And the angel answered and said to me, the Lord of all the earth.
Zechariah 6:6 The chariot with the black horses goes toward the south country.”
Zechariah 6:7 When the strong horses came out, they were impatient to go and So they patrolled the earth.
Zechariah 6:8 Then he cried to me, “Behold, those who go toward the north country.”
Zechariah 6:9 And the word of the LORD came to me:
Zechariah 6:10 “Take from the exiles Zephaniah.
Zechariah 6:11 Take from them silver and gold, and make a crown, Joshua, the son of Jehozadak, the high priest.
Zechariah 6:12 And say to him, ‘Thus says the LORD of hosts, “Behold, the man whose name is he shall build the temple of the LORD.
Zechariah 6:13  and the counsel of peace shall be between them both.”’
Zechariah 6:14 And the crown shall be in the temple of the LORD as the son of Zephaniah.
Zechariah 6:15  And this shall come to pass, if you will diligently obey the voice of the LORD your God.”
Zechariah 7:1  Chislev.
Zechariah 7:2 Now the people of Bethel had sent Sharezer and Regem-melech and their men to entreat the favor of the LORD,
Zechariah 7:3  the fifth month, as I have done for so many years?”
Zechariah 7:4 Then the word of the LORD of hosts came to me:
Zechariah 7:5 “Say to all the people of the land and the priests, ‘When you fasted and mourned in for me that you fasted?
Zechariah 7:6  And when you eat and when you drink, do you not eat for yourselves and drink for yourselves?
Zechariah 7:7  lowland were inhabited?’”
Zechariah 7:8 And the word of the LORD came to Zechariah, saying,
Zechariah 7:9 “Thus says the LORD of hosts, Render true judgments, show kindness and mercy to one another,
Zechariah 7:10  let none of you devise evil against another in your heart.”
Zechariah 7:11 But
Zechariah 7:12  Therefore great anger came from the LORD of hosts.
Zechariah 7:13  so they called, and I would not hear,” says the LORD of hosts,
Zechariah 7:14  and the pleasant land was made desolate.”
Zechariah 8:1 And the word of the LORD of hosts came, saying,
Zechariah 8:2 “Thus says the LORD of hosts: I am jealous for Zion with great jealousy, and I am jealous for her with great wrath.
Zechariah 8:3 Thus says the LORD: and the mountain of the LORD of hosts, the holy mountain.
Zechariah 8:4 Thus says the LORD of hosts: Old men and old women shall again sit in the streets of Jerusalem, each with staff in hand because of great age.
Zechariah 8:5 And the streets of the city shall be full of boys and girls playing in its streets.
Zechariah 8:6 Thus says the LORD of hosts: should it also be marvelous in my sight, declares the LORD of hosts?
Zechariah 8:7 Thus says the LORD of hosts: Behold, from the east country and from the west country,
Zechariah 8:8 and I will bring them to dwell in the midst of Jerusalem. in faithfulness and in righteousness.”
Zechariah 8:9 Thus says the LORD of hosts: the day that the foundation of the house of the LORD of hosts was laid, that the temple might be built.
Zechariah 8:10 For before those days there was no wage for man or any wage for beast, neither was there any safety from the foe for him who went out or came in, for I set every man against his neighbor.
Zechariah 8:11 But now I will not deal with the remnant of this people as in the former days, declares the LORD of hosts.
Zechariah 8:12  And I will cause the remnant of this people to possess all these things.
Zechariah 8:13 And as let your hands be strong.”
Zechariah 8:14 For thus says the LORD of hosts: “As I purposed to bring disaster to you when your fathers provoked me to wrath, and I did not relent, says the LORD of hosts,
Zechariah 8:15 so again have I purposed in these days to bring good to Jerusalem and to the house of Judah; fear not.
Zechariah 8:16 These are the things that you shall do: that are true and make for peace;
Zechariah 8:17  love no false oath, for all these things I hate, declares the LORD.”
Zechariah 8:18 And the word of the LORD of hosts came to me, saying,
Zechariah 8:19 “Thus says the LORD of hosts: The fast of the truth and peace.
Zechariah 8:20 “Thus says the LORD of hosts: Peoples shall yet come, even the inhabitants of many cities.
Zechariah 8:21 The inhabitants of one city shall go to another, saying, to entreat the favor of the LORD and to seek the LORD of hosts; I myself am going.’
Zechariah 8:22  to entreat the favor of the LORD.
Zechariah 8:23 Thus says the LORD of hosts: In those days we have heard that God is with you.’”
Zechariah 9:1 The oracle of the word of the LORD is against the land of Hadrach and
Zechariah 9:2  they are very wise.
Zechariah 9:3 Tyre has built herself heaped up silver like dust, and fine gold like the mud of the streets.
Zechariah 9:4 But behold, the Lord will strip her of her possessions and strike down she shall be devoured by fire.
Zechariah 9:5  Ashkelon shall see it, and be afraid; Gaza too, and shall writhe in anguish; Ekron also, because its hopes are confounded. The king shall perish from Gaza; Ashkelon shall be uninhabited;
Zechariah 9:6   shall dwell in Ashdod, and I will cut off the pride of Philistia.
Zechariah 9:7 I will take away a clan in Judah, and Ekron shall be like the Jebusites.
Zechariah 9:8 Thenfor now I see with my own eyes.
Zechariah 9:9 humble and mounted on a donkey, on a colt, the foal of a donkey.
Zechariah 9:10   to the ends of the earth.
Zechariah 9:11 As for you also, because of the waterless pit.
Zechariah 9:12 Return to your stronghold, O I will restore to you double.
Zechariah 9:13 For O Greece, and wield you like a warrior's sword.
Zechariah 9:14 Then the LORD will appear over them, and of the south.
Zechariah 9:15 The LORD of hosts like the corners of the altar.
Zechariah 9:16 On that day the LORD their God will save them, as like the jewels of a crown they shall shine on his land.
Zechariah 9:17 Grain shall make the young men flourish, and new wine the young women.
Zechariah 10:1 Ask rain he will give them showers of rain, to everyone the vegetation in the field.
Zechariah 10:2 For the people wander like sheep; they are afflicted for lack of a shepherd.
Zechariah 10:3  the LORD of hosts cares for his flock, the house of Judah, and will make them like his majestic steed in battle.
Zechariah 10:4 From him shall come all of them together.
Zechariah 10:5 They shall be like mighty men in battle,  the riders on horses.
Zechariah 10:6  I am the LORD their God and I will answer them.
Zechariah 10:7 Then Ephraim shall become like a mighty warrior, and their hearts shall be glad as with wine. Their children shall see it and be glad; their hearts shall rejoice in the LORD.
Zechariah 10:8  they shall be as many as they were before.
Zechariah 10:9  they shall remember me, and with their children they shall live and return.
Zechariah 10:10 till there is no room for them.
Zechariah 10:11  the scepter of Egypt shall depart.
Zechariah 10:12  they shall walk in his name,” declares the LORD.
Zechariah 11:1 Open your doors, O Lebanon, that the fire may devour your cedars!
Zechariah 11:2 Wail, O cypress, for the cedar has fallen, for the glorious trees are ruined! Wail, oaks of Bashan, for the thick forest has been felled!
Zechariah 11:3 The sound offor the thicket of the Jordan is ruined!
Zechariah 11:4 Thus said the LORD my God: “Become shepherd of the flock doomed to slaughter.
Zechariah 11:5  I have become rich,’ and their own shepherds have no pity on them.
Zechariah 11:6 For I will no longer have pity on the inhabitants of this land, declares the LORD. Behold, I will cause each of them to fall into the hand of his neighbor, and each into the hand of his king, and they shall crush the land, and I will deliver none from their hand.”
Zechariah 11:7  And I tended the sheep.
Zechariah 11:8 In one month I destroyed the three shepherds. But I became impatient with them, and they also detested me.
Zechariah 11:9 So I said, “I will not be your shepherd. What is to die, let it die. What is to be destroyed, let it be destroyed. And let those who are left devour the flesh of one another.”
Zechariah 11:10 And I took my staff Favor, and I broke it, annulling the covenant that I had made with all the peoples.
Zechariah 11:11 So it was annulled on that day, and the sheep traders, who were watching me, knew that it was the word of the LORD.
Zechariah 11:12 Then I said to them, “If it seems good to you, give me my wages; but if not, keep them.” And they weighed out as my wages thirty pieces of silver.
Zechariah 11:13 Then the LORD said to me, “Throw it to the potter” — thirty pieces of silver and threw them into the house of the LORD, to the potter.
Zechariah 11:14 Then I broke my second staff Union, annulling the brotherhood between Judah and Israel.
Zechariah 11:15 Then the LORD said to me, “Take once more the equipment of a foolish shepherd.
Zechariah 11:16 For behold, I am raising up in the land a shepherd devours the flesh of the fat ones, tearing off even their hoofs.
Zechariah 11:17  his right eye! Let his arm be wholly withered, his right eye utterly blinded!”
Zechariah 12:1  formed the spirit of man within him:
Zechariah 12:2 “Behold, I am about to make Jerusalem will also be against Judah.
Zechariah 12:3  all the nations of the earth will gather against it.
Zechariah 12:4  with blindness.
Zechariah 12:5 Then the clans of Judah shall say to themselves, ‘The inhabitants of Jerusalem have strength through the LORD of hosts, their God.’
Zechariah 12:6  Jerusalem shall again be inhabited in its place, in Jerusalem.
Zechariah 12:7 “And the LORD will give salvation to the tents of Judah first, that the glory of the house of David and the glory of the inhabitants of Jerusalem may not surpass that of Judah.
Zechariah 12:8  like the angel of the LORD, going before them.
Zechariah 12:9  I will seek to destroy all the nations that come against Jerusalem.
Zechariah 12:10 “And as one mourns for an only child, and weep bitterly over him, as one weeps over a firstborn.
Zechariah 12:11  as the mourning for Hadad-rimmon in the plain of Megiddo.
Zechariah 12:12 The land shall mourn, Nathan by itself, and their wives by themselves;
Zechariah 12:13 the family of the house of Levi by itself, and their wives by themselves; the family of the Shimeites by itself, and their wives by themselves;
Zechariah 12:14 and all the families that are left, each by itself, and their wives by themselves.
Zechariah 13:1  a fountain opened for the house of David and the inhabitants of Jerusalem, to cleanse them from sin and uncleanness.
Zechariah 13:2 “And I will remove from the land the prophets and the spirit of uncleanness.
Zechariah 13:3 And if anyone again prophesies, his father and mother who bore him will say to him, ‘You shall not live, for you speak lies in the name of the LORD.’ And his father and mother who bore him shall pierce him through when he prophesies.
Zechariah 13:4 “On that day every prophet will be ashamed of his vision when he prophesies. He will not put on a hairy cloak in order to deceive,
Zechariah 13:5 but he will say,
Zechariah 13:6 And if one asks him, ‘What are these wounds on your back?’  he will say, ‘The wounds I received in the house of my friends.’
Zechariah 13:7 “Awake, O sword, against“Strike the shepherd, and the sheep will be scattered; I will turn my hand against the little ones.
Zechariah 13:8 In the whole land, declares the LORD, two thirds shall be cut off and perish, and one third shall be left alive.
Zechariah 13:9 AndI will say, ‘They are my people’; and they will say, ‘The LORD is my God.’”
Zechariah 14:1 Behold, a day is coming for the LORD, when the spoil taken from you will be divided in your midst.
Zechariah 14:2 For Half of the city shall go out into exile, but the rest of the people shall not be cut off from the city.
Zechariah 14:3  Then the LORD will go out and fight against those nations as when he fights on a day of battle.
Zechariah 14:4  a very wide valley, so that one half of the Mount shall move northward, and the other half southward.
Zechariah 14:5 And you shall flee to the valley of my mountains, for the valley of the mountains shall reach to Azal. And you shall flee as you fled from
Zechariah 14:6
Zechariah 14:7  at evening time there shall be light.
Zechariah 14:8  It shall continue in summer as in winter.
Zechariah 14:9 And his name one.
Zechariah 14:10  the Tower of Hananel to the king's winepresses.
Zechariah 14:11 And it shall be inhabited, for Jerusalem shall dwell in security.
Zechariah 14:12 And this shall be the plague with which the LORD will strike all the peoples that wage war against Jerusalem: their flesh will rot while they are still standing on their feet, their eyes will rot in their sockets, and their tongues will rot in their mouths.
Zechariah 14:13 And each will seize the hand of another, and the hand of the one will be raised against the hand of the other.
Zechariah 14:14 Even the wealth of all the surrounding nations shall be collected, gold, silver, and garments in great abundance.
Zechariah 14:15 And a plague like this plague shall fall on the horses, the mules, the camels, the donkeys, and whatever beasts may be in those camps.
Zechariah 14:16 Then everyone who survives of all the nations that have come against Jerusalem the Feast of Booths.
Zechariah 14:17 And if there will be no rain on them.
Zechariah 14:18 And if the family of Egypt does not go up and present themselves, then on them there shall be no rain; to keep the Feast of Booths.
Zechariah 14:19 This shall be the punishment to Egypt and the punishment to all the nations that do not go up to keep the Feast of Booths.
Zechariah 14:20 And “Holy to the LORD.” And the pots in the house of the LORD shall be as the bowls before the altar.
Zechariah 14:21 And every pot in Jerusalem and Judah shall be on that day.
Malachi 1:1 The oracle of the word of the LORD to Israel by Malachi.
Malachi 1:2  I have loved Jacob
Malachi 1:3 but Esau I have hated. I have laid waste his hill country and left his heritage to jackals of the desert.”
Malachi 1:4 If Edom says, “We are shattered but we will rebuild the ruins,” the LORD of hosts says, “They may build, but I will tear down, and they will be called ‘the wicked country,’ and ‘the people with whom the LORD is angry forever.’”
Malachi 1:5  Your own eyes shall see this, and you shall say, “Great is the LORD beyond the border of Israel!”
Malachi 1:6  But you say, ‘How have we despised your name?’
Malachi 1:7  the LORD's table may be despised.
Malachi 1:8  When you offer blind animals in sacrifice, is that not evil? And when you offer those that are lame or sick, is that not evil? Present that to your governor; will he accept you or show you favor? says the LORD of hosts.
Malachi 1:9 And now will he show favor to any of you? says the LORD of hosts.
Malachi 1:10  and I will not accept an offering from your hand.
Malachi 1:11 For from the rising of the sun to its setting my name will be great among the nations, says the LORD of hosts.
Malachi 1:12 But you profane it when you say that the Lord's table is polluted, and its fruit, that is, its food may be despised.
Malachi 1:13 But you say, You bring what has been taken by violence or is lame or sick, and this you bring as your offering! Shall I accept that from your hand? says the LORD.
Malachi 1:14 Cursed be the cheat who has will be feared among the nations.
Malachi 2:1 “And now, this command is for you.
Malachi 2:2  your blessings. Indeed, I have already cursed them, because you do not lay it to heart.
Malachi 2:3 Behold,
Malachi 2:4 So shall you know that I have sent my covenant with Levi may stand, says the LORD of hosts.
Malachi 2:5 My covenant with him was one of life and It was a covenant of fear, and he feared me. He stood in awe of my name.
Malachi 2:6  turned many from iniquity.
Malachi 2:7 For  should seek instruction from his mouth, for he is the messenger of the LORD of hosts.
Malachi 2:8 But you have turned aside from the way. the covenant of Levi, says the LORD of hosts,
Malachi 2:9 and so show partiality in your instruction.”
Malachi 2:10 Have we not all faithless to one another, profaning the covenant of our fathers?
Malachi 2:11 Judah has been Judah has profaned the sanctuary of the LORD, which he loves, and has married the daughter of a foreign god.
Malachi 2:12 May the LORD cut off from the tents of Jacob any descendant brings an offering to the LORD of hosts!
Malachi 2:13 And this second thing you do. You cover the LORD's altar with tears, with weeping and groaning because he no longer regards the offering or accepts it with favor from your hand.
Malachi 2:14  you have been faithless, though she is your companion and your wife by covenant.
Malachi 2:15  faithless to the wife of your youth.
Malachi 2:16 “For do not be faithless.”
Malachi 2:17  “Where is the God of justice?”
Malachi 3:1  the messenger of the covenant in whom you delight, behold, he is coming, says the LORD of hosts.
Malachi 3:2 But he is like a refiner's fire and like fullers' soap.
Malachi 3:3 He will sit
Malachi 3:4  Then the offering of Judah and Jerusalem will be pleasing to the LORD as in the days of old and as in former years.
Malachi 3:5 “Then I will draw near to you for judgment. I will be the widow and the fatherless, against those who thrust aside the sojourner, and do not fear me, says the LORD of hosts.
Malachi 3:6 “For therefore you, O children of Jacob, are not consumed.
Malachi 3:7  But you say, ‘How shall we return?’
Malachi 3:8 Will man rob God? Yet you are robbing me. In your tithes and contributions.
Malachi 3:9  You are cursed with a curse, for you are robbing me, the whole nation of you.
Malachi 3:10  the windows of heaven for you and pour down for you a blessing until there is no more need.
Malachi 3:11 I will rebuke  for you, so that it will not destroy the fruits of your soil, and your vine in the field shall not fail to bear, says the LORD of hosts.
Malachi 3:12 Then a land of delight, says the LORD of hosts.
Malachi 3:13  But you say, ‘How have we spoken against you?’
Malachi 3:14 You have said, What is the profit of our keeping his charge or of walking as in mourning before the LORD of hosts?
Malachi 3:15 And now we call they put God to the test and they escape.’”
Malachi 3:16 Then those who feared the LORD a book of remembrance was written before him of those who feared the LORD and esteemed his name.
Malachi 3:17 “They shall be mine, says the LORD of hosts, my treasured possession, and I will spare them as a man spares his son who serves him.
Malachi 3:18 Then once more you shall see the distinction between the righteous and the wicked, between one who serves God and one who does not serve him.
Malachi 4:1  shall set them ablaze, says the LORD of hosts, so that it will leave them neither root nor branch.
Malachi 4:2 But for you leaping like calves from the stall.
Malachi 4:3 And you shall tread down the wicked, for they will be ashes under the soles of your feet, on the day when I act, says the LORD of hosts.
Malachi 4:4   that I commanded him at Horeb for all Israel.
Malachi 4:5  before the great and awesome day of the LORD comes.
Malachi 4:6 And he will
Matthew 1:1  the son of Abraham.
Matthew 1:2  Jacob the father of Judah and his brothers,
Matthew 1:3 and
Matthew 1:4 and Ram the father of Amminadab, and Amminadab the father of Nahshon, and Nahshon the father of Salmon,
Matthew 1:5 and Salmon the father of Boaz by Rahab, and Boaz the father of Obed by Ruth, and Obed the father of Jesse,
Matthew 1:6 and the wife of Uriah,
Matthew 1:7 and
Matthew 1:8 and Asaph the father of Jehoshaphat, and Jehoshaphat the father of Joram, and Joram the father of Uzziah,
Matthew 1:9 and Uzziah the father of Jotham, and Jotham the father of Ahaz, and Ahaz the father of Hezekiah,
Matthew 1:10 and Hezekiah the father of Manasseh, and Manasseh the father of Amos,  and Amos the father of Josiah,
Matthew 1:11 and Jechoniah and his brothers, at the time of the deportation to Babylon.
Matthew 1:12 And after the deportation to Babylon: Shealtiel the father of Zerubbabel,
Matthew 1:13 and Zerubbabel the father of Abiud, and Abiud the father of Eliakim, and Eliakim the father of Azor,
Matthew 1:14 and Azor the father of Zadok, and Zadok the father of Achim, and Achim the father of Eliud,
Matthew 1:15 and Eliud the father of Eleazar, and Eleazar the father of Matthan, and Matthan the father of Jacob,
Matthew 1:16 and Jacob the father of Joseph the husband of Mary, of whom Jesus was born, who is called Christ.
Matthew 1:17 So all the generations from Abraham to David were fourteen generations, and from David to the deportation to Babylon fourteen generations, and from the deportation to Babylon to the Christ fourteen generations.
Matthew 1:18 Now the birth of from the Holy Spirit.
Matthew 1:19 And her husband Joseph, being a just man and unwilling to put her to shame, resolved to divorce her quietly.
Matthew 1:20 But as he considered these things, behold, an angel of the Lord appeared to him in a dream, saying, “Joseph, son of David, do not fear to take Mary as your wife, for that which is conceived in her is from the Holy Spirit.
Matthew 1:21 She will bear a son, and for he will save his people from their sins.”
Matthew 1:22  to fulfill what the Lord had spoken by the prophet:
Matthew 1:23  with us).
Matthew 1:24 When Joseph woke from sleep, he did as the angel of the Lord commanded him: he took his wife,
Matthew 1:25 but knew her not until she had given birth to a son. And he called his name Jesus.
Matthew 2:1 Now the east came to Jerusalem,
Matthew 2:2 saying, “Where is he who has been born worship him.”
Matthew 2:3 When Herod the king heard this, he was troubled, and all Jerusalem with him;
Matthew 2:4 and assembling all the chief priests and scribes of the people, he inquired of them where the Christ was to be born.
Matthew 2:5 They told him, “In Bethlehem of Judea, for so it is written by the prophet:
Matthew 2:6  shepherd my people Israel.’”
Matthew 2:7 Then Herod summoned the wise men secretly and ascertained from them what time the star had appeared.
Matthew 2:8 And he sent them to Bethlehem, saying, “Go and search diligently for the child, and when you have found him, bring me word, that I too may come and worship him.”
Matthew 2:9 After listening to the king, they went on their way. And behold, the star that they had seen when it rose went before them until it came to rest over the place where the child was.
Matthew 2:10 When they saw the star, they rejoiced exceedingly with great joy.
Matthew 2:11 And going into the house, they saw the child with Mary his mother, and they fell down and worshiped him. Then, opening their treasures, myrrh.
Matthew 2:12 And in a dream not to return to Herod, they departed to their own country by another way.
Matthew 2:13 Now when they had departed, behold, an angel of the Lord appeared to Joseph in a dream and said, “Rise, take the child and his mother, and flee to Egypt, and remain there until I tell you, for Herod is about to search for the child, to destroy him.”
Matthew 2:14 And he rose and took the child and his mother by night and departed to Egypt
Matthew 2:15 and remained there until the death of Herod. “Out of Egypt I called my son.”
Matthew 2:16 Then Herod, when he saw that he had been tricked by the wise men, became furious, and he sent and killed all the male children in Bethlehem and in all that region who were two years old or under, according to the time that he had ascertained from the wise men.
Matthew 2:17  Then was fulfilled what was spoken by the prophet Jeremiah:
Matthew 2:18  are no more.”
Matthew 2:19 But when Herod died, behold, an angel of the Lord appeared in a dream to Joseph in Egypt,
Matthew 2:20 saying, “Rise, take the child and his mother and go to the land of Israel, for those who sought the child's life are dead.”
Matthew 2:21 And he rose and took the child and his mother and went to the land of Israel.
Matthew 2:22 But when he heard that Archelaus was reigning over Judea in place of his father Herod, he was afraid to go there, and being warned in a dream he withdrew to the district of Galilee.
Matthew 2:23 And he went and lived in a city called so that what was spoken by the prophets might be fulfilled, that he would be called a Nazarene.
Matthew 3:1  the wilderness of Judea,
Matthew 3:2
Matthew 3:3 For this is he who was spoken of by the prophet Isaiah when he said,   the way of the Lord; make his paths straight.’”
Matthew 3:4 Now John wore wild honey.
Matthew 3:5 Then Jerusalem and all Judea and all the region about the Jordan were going out to him,
Matthew 3:6 and they were baptized by him in the river Jordan, confessing their sins.
Matthew 3:7 But when he saw many of the wrath to come?
Matthew 3:8 Bear fruit in keeping with repentance.
Matthew 3:9 And do not presume to say to yourselves, these stones to raise up children for Abraham.
Matthew 3:10 Even now the axe is laid to the root of the trees. Every tree therefore that does not bear good fruit is cut down and thrown into the fire.
Matthew 3:11  fire.
Matthew 3:12 His unquenchable fire.”
Matthew 3:13  from Galilee to the Jordan to John, to be baptized by him.
Matthew 3:14  John would have prevented him, saying, “I need to be baptized by you, and do you come to me?”
Matthew 3:15 But Jesus answered him, “Let it be so now, for thus it is fitting for us to fulfill all righteousness.” Then he consented.
Matthew 3:16 And when Jesus was baptized, immediately he went up from the water, and behold, saw the Spirit of God descending like a dove and coming to rest on him;
Matthew 3:17 and behold,  with whom I am well pleased.”
Matthew 4:1  to be tempted by the devil.
Matthew 4:2 And after fasting was hungry.
Matthew 4:3 And these stones to become loaves of bread.”
Matthew 4:4 But he answered,  “‘Man shall not live by bread alone, but by every word that comes from the mouth of God.’”
Matthew 4:5  the holy city and set him on the pinnacle of the temple
Matthew 4:6 and said to him, “If you are the Son of God, throw yourself down, for it is written, “‘He will command his angels concerning you,’  and “‘On their hands they will bear you up, lest you strike your foot against a stone.’”
Matthew 4:7 Jesus said to him, “Again put the Lord your God to the test.’”
Matthew 4:8  Again, the devil took him to a very high mountain and showed him all the kingdoms of the world and their glory.
Matthew 4:9 And he said to him, “All these I will give you, if you will fall down and worship me.”
Matthew 4:10 Then Jesus said to him, “Be gone, him only shall you serve.’”
Matthew 4:11 Then the devil left him, and behold, angels came and were ministering to him.
Matthew 4:12 Now when he heard that he withdrew into Galilee.
Matthew 4:13 And leaving Zebulun and Naphtali,
Matthew 4:14  so that what was spoken by the prophet Isaiah might be fulfilled:
Matthew 4:15  “The land of Zebulun and the land of Naphtali, the way of the sea, beyond the Jordan, Galilee of the Gentiles —
Matthew 4:16  shadow of death, on them a light has dawned.”
Matthew 4:17
Matthew 4:18  the Sea of Galilee, he saw two brothers, Simon (who is called Peter) and Andrew his brother, casting a net into the sea, for they were fishermen.
Matthew 4:19 And he said to them, “Follow me, and I will make you
Matthew 4:20 Immediately they left their nets and followed him.
Matthew 4:21 And going on from there he saw two other brothers, James the son of Zebedee and John his brother, in the boat with Zebedee their father, mending their nets, and he called them.
Matthew 4:22 Immediately they left the boat and their father and followed him.
Matthew 4:23  healing every disease and every affliction among the people.
Matthew 4:24 So his fame spread throughout all paralytics, and he healed them.
Matthew 4:25  Decapolis, and from Jerusalem and Judea, and from beyond the Jordan.
Matthew 5:1 Seeing the crowds, sat down, his disciples came to him.
Matthew 5:2 And he opened his mouth and taught them, saying:
Matthew 5:3  theirs is the kingdom of heaven.
Matthew 5:4 “Blessed are those who mourn, for they shall be comforted.
Matthew 5:5 “Blessed are the shall inherit the earth.
Matthew 5:6 “Blessed are those who hunger and for righteousness, for they shall be satisfied.
Matthew 5:7 “Blessed are the merciful, for they shall receive mercy.
Matthew 5:8 “Blessed are they shall see God.
Matthew 5:9 “Blessed are  of God.
Matthew 5:10  theirs is the kingdom of heaven.
Matthew 5:11  on my account.
Matthew 5:12  so they persecuted the prophets who were before you.
Matthew 5:13 “You are the salt of the earth, but if salt has lost its taste, how shall its saltiness be restored? It is no longer good for anything except to be thrown out and trampled under people's feet.
Matthew 5:14  “You are the light of the world. A city set on a hill cannot be hidden.
Matthew 5:15  Nor do people light a lamp and put it under a basket, but on a stand, and it gives light to all in the house.
Matthew 5:16 In the same way, let your light shine before others, so give glory to your Father who is in heaven.
Matthew 5:17  to fulfill them.
Matthew 5:18 For truly, I say to you, until heaven and earth pass away, not an iota, not a dot, will pass from the Law until all is accomplished.
Matthew 5:19  in the kingdom of heaven.
Matthew 5:20 For I tell you, unless your righteousness exceeds will never enter the kingdom of heaven.
Matthew 5:21  to judgment.’
Matthew 5:22 But I say to you that  of fire.
Matthew 5:23  you are offering your gift at the altar and there remember that your brother has something against you,
Matthew 5:24 leave your gift there before the altar and go. First be reconciled to your brother, and then come and offer your gift.
Matthew 5:25  Come to terms quickly with your accuser while you are going with him to court, lest your accuser hand you over to the judge, and the judge to the guard, and you be put in prison.
Matthew 5:26 Truly, I say to you,
Matthew 5:27  ‘You shall not commit adultery.’
Matthew 5:28 But I say to you that everyone who looks at a woman with lustful intent has already committed adultery with her in his heart.
Matthew 5:29  hell.
Matthew 5:30  hell.
Matthew 5:31  ‘Whoever divorces his wife, let him give her a certificate of divorce.’
Matthew 5:32  whoever marries a divorced woman commits adultery.
Matthew 5:33 “Again shall perform to the Lord what you have sworn.’
Matthew 5:34 But I say to you, it is the throne of God,
Matthew 5:35 or by the earth, for it is his footstool, or by Jerusalem, for it is the city of the great King.
Matthew 5:36 And do not take an oath by your head, for you cannot make one hair white or black.
Matthew 5:37 Let what you say be simply ‘Yes’ or ‘No’;
Matthew 5:38  ‘An eye for an eye and a tooth for a tooth.’
Matthew 5:39 But I say to you, slaps you on the right cheek, turn to him the other also.
Matthew 5:40 And  let him have your cloak as well.
Matthew 5:41 And if anyone forces you to go one mile, go with him two miles.
Matthew 5:42  do not refuse the one who would borrow from you.
Matthew 5:43  ‘You shall love your neighbor and hate your enemy.’
Matthew 5:44 But I say to you, pray for those who persecute you,
Matthew 5:45  sends rain on the just and on the unjust.
Matthew 5:46  For if you love those who love you, what reward do you have? Do not even the tax collectors do the same?
Matthew 5:47 And if you greet only your brothers, the Gentiles do the same?
Matthew 5:48  as your heavenly Father is perfect.
Matthew 6:1 “Beware of to be seen by them, for then you will have no reward from your Father who is in heaven.
Matthew 6:2  received their reward.
Matthew 6:3 But when you give to the needy, do not let your left hand know what your right hand is doing,
Matthew 6:4 so that your giving may be in secret. And your Father who sees in secret will reward you.
Matthew 6:5 “And when you pray, you must not be like the hypocrites. For they love Truly, I say to you, they have received their reward.
Matthew 6:6 But when you pray, And your Father who sees in secret will reward you.
Matthew 6:7 “And when you pray, do not heap up empty phrases as for their many words.
Matthew 6:8 Do not be like them, for your Father knows what you need before you ask him.
Matthew 6:9
Matthew 6:10  on earth as it is in heaven.
Matthew 6:11
Matthew 6:12 and forgive us our debts, as we also have forgiven our debtors.
Matthew 6:13 And
Matthew 6:14  For if you forgive others their trespasses, your heavenly Father will also forgive you,
Matthew 6:15  but if you do not forgive others their trespasses, neither will your Father forgive your trespasses.
Matthew 6:16 “And Truly, I say to you, they have received their reward.
Matthew 6:17 But when you fast, anoint your head and wash your face,
Matthew 6:18 that your fasting may not be seen by others but by your Father who is in secret. And your Father who sees in secret will reward you.
Matthew 6:19  break in and steal,
Matthew 6:20  but lay up for yourselves treasures in heaven, where neither moth nor rust destroys and where thieves do not break in and steal.
Matthew 6:21 For where your treasure is, there your heart will be also.
Matthew 6:22  “The eye is the lamp of the body. So, if your eye is healthy, your whole body will be full of light,
Matthew 6:23  your eye is bad, your whole body will be full of darkness. If then the light in you is darkness, how great is the darkness!
Matthew 6:24
Matthew 6:25  do not be anxious about your life, what you will eat or what you will drink, nor about your body, what you will put on. Is not life more than food, and the body more than clothing?
Matthew 6:26  Are you not of more value than they?
Matthew 6:27 And which of you by being anxious can add a single hour to his
Matthew 6:28 And why are you anxious about clothing? Consider the lilies of the field, how they grow: they neither toil nor spin,
Matthew 6:29 yet I tell you, even Solomon in all his glory was not arrayed like one of these.
Matthew 6:30 But if God so clothes the grass of the field, which today is alive and tomorrow is thrown into the oven, will he not much more clothe you, O you of little faith?
Matthew 6:31 Therefore do not be anxious, saying, ‘What shall we eat?’ or ‘What shall we drink?’ or ‘What shall we wear?’
Matthew 6:32 For your heavenly Father knows that you need them all.
Matthew 6:33 But and all these things will be added to you.
Matthew 6:34  “Therefore do not be anxious about tomorrow, for tomorrow will be anxious for itself. Sufficient for the day is its own trouble.
Matthew 7:1  “Judge not, that you be not judged.
Matthew 7:2  with the measure you use it will be measured to you.
Matthew 7:3 Why do you see the speck that is in your brother's eye, but do not notice the log that is in your own eye?
Matthew 7:4 Or how can you say to your brother, ‘Let me take the speck out of your eye,’ when there is the log in your own eye?
Matthew 7:5 You hypocrite, first take the log out of your own eye, and then you will see clearly to take the speck out of your brother's eye.
Matthew 7:6  pearls before pigs, lest they trample them underfoot and turn to attack you.
Matthew 7:7  knock, and it will be opened to you.
Matthew 7:8 For everyone who asks receives, and the one who seeks finds, and to the one who knocks it will be opened.
Matthew 7:9 Or which one of you, if his son asks him for a stone?
Matthew 7:10 Or if he asks for a fish, will give him a serpent?
Matthew 7:11 If you then, your Father who is in heaven give good things to those who ask him!
Matthew 7:12 “So the Law and the Prophets.
Matthew 7:13   that leads to destruction, and those who enter by it are many.
Matthew 7:14 For the gate is narrow and those who find it are few.
Matthew 7:15  ravenous wolves.
Matthew 7:16 You will recognize them by their fruits. Are grapes gathered from thornbushes, or figs from thistles?
Matthew 7:17 So, every healthy tree bears good fruit, but the diseased tree bears bad fruit.
Matthew 7:18 A healthy tree cannot bear bad fruit, nor can a diseased tree bear good fruit.
Matthew 7:19  Every tree that does not bear good fruit is cut down and thrown into the fire.
Matthew 7:20 Thus you will recognize them by their fruits.
Matthew 7:21  does the will of my Father who is in heaven.
Matthew 7:22  in your name, and do many mighty works in your name?’
Matthew 7:23  you workers of lawlessness.’
Matthew 7:24  a wise man who built his house on the rock.
Matthew 7:25 And the rain fell, and the floods came, and the winds blew and beat on that house, but it did not fall, because it had been founded on the rock.
Matthew 7:26 And everyone who hears these words of mine and does not do them will be like a foolish man who built his house on the sand.
Matthew 7:27 And the rain fell, and the floods came, and the winds blew and beat against that house, and it fell, and great was the fall of it.”
Matthew 7:28 And when Jesus finished these sayings, the crowds were astonished at his teaching,
Matthew 7:29  for he was teaching them as one who had authority, and not as their scribes.
Matthew 8:1 When he came down from the mountain, great crowds followed him.
Matthew 8:2  knelt before him, saying, “Lord, if you will, you can make me clean.”
Matthew 8:3 And Jesus  stretched out his hand and touched him, saying, “I will; be clean.” And immediately his leprosy was cleansed.
Matthew 8:4 And Jesus said to him,  for a proof to them.”
Matthew 8:5  When he had entered Capernaum, a centurion came forward to him, appealing to him,
Matthew 8:6 “Lord, my servant is lying paralyzed at home, suffering terribly.”
Matthew 8:7 And he said to him, “I will come and heal him.”
Matthew 8:8 But the centurion replied, “Lord, I am not worthy to have you come under my roof, but only say the word, and my servant will be healed.
Matthew 8:9 For I too am a man under authority, with soldiers under me. And I say to one, ‘Go,’ and he goes, and to another, ‘Come,’ and he comes, and to my servant,  ‘Do this,’ and he does it.”
Matthew 8:10 When Jesus heard this,  have I found such faith.
Matthew 8:11 I tell you, many will come from east and west and recline at table with Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob in the kingdom of heaven,
Matthew 8:12  there will be weeping and gnashing of teeth.”
Matthew 8:13 And to the centurion Jesus said, “Go; let it be done for you And the servant was healed at that very moment.
Matthew 8:14  his mother-in-law lying sick with a fever.
Matthew 8:15 He touched her hand, and the fever left her, and she rose and began to serve him.
Matthew 8:16 That evening they brought to him many who were with a word and healed all who were sick.
Matthew 8:17  “He took our illnesses and bore our diseases.”
Matthew 8:18 Now he gave orders to go over to the other side.
Matthew 8:19  And a scribe came up and said to him, “Teacher, I will follow you wherever you go.”
Matthew 8:20 And Jesus said to him, “Foxes have holes, and birds of the air have nests, but the Son of Man has nowhere to lay his head.”
Matthew 8:21 Another of the disciples said to him, “Lord, let me first go and bury my father.”
Matthew 8:22 And Jesus said to him, “Follow me, and leave the dead to bury their own dead.”
Matthew 8:23  And when he got into the boat, his disciples followed him.
Matthew 8:24 And behold, there arose a great storm on the sea, so that the boat was being swamped by the waves; but he was asleep.
Matthew 8:25 And they went and woke him, saying, “Save us, Lord; we are perishing.”
Matthew 8:26 And he said to them, “Why are you there was a great calm.
Matthew 8:27 And the men winds and sea obey him?”
Matthew 8:28   men met him, coming out of the tombs, so fierce that no one could pass that way.
Matthew 8:29 And behold, they before the time?”
Matthew 8:30 Now a herd of many pigs was feeding at some distance from them.
Matthew 8:31 And the demons begged him, saying, “If you cast us out, send us away into the herd of pigs.”
Matthew 8:32 And he said to them, “Go.” So they came out and went into the pigs, and behold, the whole herd rushed down the steep bank into the sea and drowned in the waters.
Matthew 8:33 The herdsmen fled, and going into the city they told everything, especially what had happened to the demon-possessed men.
Matthew 8:34 And behold, all the city came out to meet Jesus, and when they saw him, they begged him to leave their region.
Matthew 9:1 And getting into a boat he crossed over and came to his own city.
Matthew 9:2  your sins are forgiven.”
Matthew 9:3 And behold, some of the scribes said to themselves, “This man is blaspheming.”
Matthew 9:4 But Jesus,  their thoughts, said, “Why do you think evil in your hearts?
Matthew 9:5 For which is easier, to say, ‘Your sins are forgiven,’ or to say, ‘Rise and walk’?
Matthew 9:6 But that you may know that the Son of Man has authority on earth to forgive sins” — he then said to the paralytic — “Rise, pick up your bed and go home.”
Matthew 9:7 And he rose and went home.
Matthew 9:8 When the crowds saw it, given such authority to men.
Matthew 9:9  Matthew sitting at the tax booth, and he said to him, “Follow me.” And he rose and followed him.
Matthew 9:10 And as Jesus tax collectors and sinners came and were reclining with Jesus and his disciples.
Matthew 9:11 And when the Pharisees saw this, they said to his disciples, tax collectors and sinners?”
Matthew 9:12 But when he heard it, he said, “Those who are well have no need of a physician, but those who are sick.
Matthew 9:13 Go and learn but sinners.”
Matthew 9:14 Then  but your disciples do not fast?”
Matthew 9:15 And Jesus said to them,  then they will fast.
Matthew 9:16 No one puts a piece of unshrunk cloth on an old garment, for the patch tears away from the garment, and a worse tear is made.
Matthew 9:17 Neither is new wine put into old wineskins. If it is, the skins burst and the wine is spilled and the skins are destroyed. But new wine is put into fresh wineskins, and so both are preserved.”
Matthew 9:18  knelt before him, saying, “My daughter has just died, but come and lay your hand on her, and she will live.”
Matthew 9:19 And Jesus rose and followed him, with his disciples.
Matthew 9:20 And behold, a woman the fringe of his garment,
Matthew 9:21 for she said to herself, “If I only touch his garment, I will be made well.”
Matthew 9:22 Jesus turned, and seeing her he said,   the woman was made well.
Matthew 9:23 And when Jesus came to the ruler's house and saw the flute players and the crowd making a commotion,
Matthew 9:24 he said, “Go away, for sleeping.” And they laughed at him.
Matthew 9:25 But took her by the hand, and the girl arose.
Matthew 9:26 And the report of this went through all that district.
Matthew 9:27  Son of David.”
Matthew 9:28 When he entered the house, the blind men came to him, and Jesus said to them, “Do you believe that I am able to do this?” They said to him, “Yes, Lord.”
Matthew 9:29  “According to your faith be it done to you.”
Matthew 9:30 And their eyes were opened. And Jesus sternly warned them,  “See that no one knows about it.”
Matthew 9:31  But they went away and spread his fame through all that district.
Matthew 9:32 As they were going away, behold, a was brought to him.
Matthew 9:33 And when the demon had been cast out, the mute man spoke. And the crowds marveled, saying, “Never was anything like this seen in Israel.”
Matthew 9:34 But the Pharisees said, “He casts out demons by the prince of demons.”
Matthew 9:35  And Jesus went throughout all the cities and villages, teaching in their synagogues and proclaiming the gospel of the kingdom and healing every disease and every affliction.
Matthew 9:36  like sheep without a shepherd.
Matthew 9:37  Then he said to his disciples, “The harvest is plentiful, but the laborers are few;
Matthew 9:38 therefore send out laborers into his harvest.”
Matthew 10:1  And he called to him his twelve disciples and gave them authority over unclean spirits, to cast them out, and to heal every disease and every affliction.
Matthew 10:2  James the son of Zebedee, and John his brother;
Matthew 10:3 Philip and Bartholomew; Thomas and
Matthew 10:4 Simon the Zealot,  and Judas Iscariot, who betrayed him.
Matthew 10:5  the Samaritans,
Matthew 10:6  the house of Israel.
Matthew 10:7 And proclaim as you go, saying,
Matthew 10:8  You received without paying; give without pay.
Matthew 10:9  Acquire no gold or silver or copper for your belts,
Matthew 10:10 no bag for your journey, or two tunics the laborer deserves his food.
Matthew 10:11 And whatever town or village you enter, find out who is worthy in it and stay there until you depart.
Matthew 10:12 As you enter the house, greet it.
Matthew 10:13 And if the house is your peace return to you.
Matthew 10:14 And if anyone will not receive you or listen to your words, shake off the dust from your feet when you leave that house or town.
Matthew 10:15 Truly, I say to you, the land of Sodom and Gomorrah than for that town.
Matthew 10:16  innocent as doves.
Matthew 10:17 Beware of men, for in their synagogues,
Matthew 10:18  to bear witness before them and the Gentiles.
Matthew 10:19  what you are to say will be given to you in that hour.
Matthew 10:20  the Spirit of your Father speaking through you.
Matthew 10:21  Brother will deliver brother over to death, and the father his child, and children will rise against parents and have them put to death,
Matthew 10:22  But the one who endures to the end will be saved.
Matthew 10:23 When they before the Son of Man comes.
Matthew 10:24   above his master.
Matthew 10:25 It is enough for the disciple to be like his teacher, and the servant like his master.  those of his household.
Matthew 10:26 “So have no fear of them, for nothing is covered that will not be revealed, or hidden that will not be known.
Matthew 10:27 What I tell you in the dark, say in the light, and what you hear whispered, proclaim on the housetops.
Matthew 10:28 And
Matthew 10:29 Are not two sparrows sold for a penny?  And not one of them will fall to the ground apart from your Father.
Matthew 10:30 But even the hairs of your head are all numbered.
Matthew 10:31 Fear not, therefore; you are of more value than many sparrows.
Matthew 10:32  So everyone who acknowledges me before men, I also will acknowledge before my Father who is in heaven,
Matthew 10:33 but I also will deny before my Father who is in heaven.
Matthew 10:34  I have not come to bring peace, but a sword.
Matthew 10:35  to set a man against his father, and a daughter against her mother, and a daughter-in-law against her mother-in-law.
Matthew 10:36  And a person's enemies will be those of his own household.
Matthew 10:37  Whoever loves father or mother more than me is not worthy of me, and whoever loves son or daughter more than me is not worthy of me.
Matthew 10:38 And follow me is not worthy of me.
Matthew 10:39  Whoever finds his life will lose it, and whoever loses his life for my sake will find it.
Matthew 10:40  whoever receives me receives him who sent me.
Matthew 10:41  The one who receives a prophet because he is a prophet will receive a prophet's reward, and the one who receives a righteous person because he is a righteous person will receive a righteous person's reward.
Matthew 10:42 And these little ones even a cup of cold water because he is a disciple, truly, I say to you, he will by no means lose his reward.”
Matthew 11:1 When Jesus had finished instructing his twelve disciples, he went on from there to teach and preach in their cities.
Matthew 11:2  his disciples
Matthew 11:3 and said to him, “Are you look for another?”
Matthew 11:4 And Jesus answered them, “Go and tell John what you hear and see:
Matthew 11:5  the poor have good news preached to them.
Matthew 11:6 And blessed is the one who is not offended by me.”
Matthew 11:7 As they went away, Jesus began to speak to the crowds concerning John: “What did you go out A reed shaken by the wind?
Matthew 11:8 What then did you go out to see? A man  dressed in soft clothing? Behold, those who wear soft clothing are in kings' houses.
Matthew 11:9 What then did you go out to see?  Yes, I tell you, and more than a prophet.
Matthew 11:10 This is he of whom it is written,  “‘Behold, I send my messenger before your face, who will prepare your way before you.’
Matthew 11:11 Truly, I say to you, among those born of women there has arisen no one greater than John the Baptist. Yet the one who is least in the kingdom of heaven is greater than he.
Matthew 11:12   and the violent take it by force.
Matthew 11:13  For all the Prophets and the Law prophesied until John,
Matthew 11:14 and if you are willing to accept it, he is Elijah who is to come.
Matthew 11:15   let him hear.
Matthew 11:16 “But to what shall I compare this generation? It is like children sitting in the marketplaces and calling to their playmates,
Matthew 11:17 “‘We played the flute for you, and you did not dance; we sang a dirge, and you did not mourn.’
Matthew 11:18 For John came nor drinking, and they say, ‘He has a demon.’
Matthew 11:19 The Son of Man came
Matthew 11:20  Then he began to denounce the cities where most of his mighty works had been done, because they did not repent.
Matthew 11:21  Tyre and Sidon, they would have repented long ago in sackcloth and ashes.
Matthew 11:22  Tyre and Sidon than for you.
Matthew 11:23 And you, Hades. For if the mighty works done in you had been done in Sodom, it would have remained until this day.
Matthew 11:24  the day of judgment for the land of Sodom than for you.”
Matthew 11:25  revealed them to little children;
Matthew 11:26 yes, Father, for such was your
Matthew 11:27  to whom the Son chooses to reveal him.
Matthew 11:28  heavy laden, and I will give you rest.
Matthew 11:29 Take my yoke upon you, and you will find rest for your souls.
Matthew 11:30 For my yoke is easy, and my burden is light.”
Matthew 12:1 At that time they began to pluck heads of grain and to eat.
Matthew 12:2 But when the Pharisees saw it, they said to him, what is not lawful to do on the Sabbath.”
Matthew 12:3 He said to them,  “Have you not read what David did when he was hungry, and those who were with him:
Matthew 12:4 how he entered the house of God and ate the bread of the Presence, which it was not lawful for him to eat nor for those who were with him, but only for the priests?
Matthew 12:5 Or have you not read in the Law how on the Sabbath the priests in the temple profane the Sabbath and are guiltless?
Matthew 12:6 I tell you, something greater than the temple is here.
Matthew 12:7 And if you had known ‘I desire mercy, and not sacrifice,’ you would not have condemned the guiltless.
Matthew 12:8 For the Son of Man is lord of the Sabbath.”
Matthew 12:9 He went on from there and entered their synagogue.
Matthew 12:10 And a man was there with a withered hand. And they asked him, so that they might accuse him.
Matthew 12:11 He said to them, “Which one of you who has a sheep, if it falls into a pit on the Sabbath, will not take hold of it and lift it out?
Matthew 12:12  it is lawful to do good on the Sabbath.”
Matthew 12:13 Then he said to the man, “Stretch out your hand.” And the man stretched it out, and it was restored, healthy like the other.
Matthew 12:14 But the Pharisees went out and conspired against him, how to destroy him.
Matthew 12:15 Jesus, aware of this, many followed him, and he healed them all
Matthew 12:16 and ordered them not to make him known.
Matthew 12:17  This was to fulfill what was spoken by the prophet Isaiah:
Matthew 12:18 I will put my Spirit upon him, and he will proclaim justice to the Gentiles.
Matthew 12:19 He will not quarrel or cry aloud, nor will anyone hear his voice in the streets;
Matthew 12:20 a bruised reed he will not break, and a smoldering wick he will not quench, until he brings justice to victory;
Matthew 12:21  and in his name the Gentiles will hope.”
Matthew 12:22  Then a demon-oppressed man who was blind and mute was brought to him, and he healed him, so that the man spoke and saw.
Matthew 12:23  “Can this be the Son of David?”
Matthew 12:24 But when the Pharisees heard it, they said, “It is only by Beelzebul, the prince of demons, that this man casts out demons.”
Matthew 12:25  he said to them, “Every kingdom divided against itself is laid waste, and no city or house divided against itself will stand.
Matthew 12:26 And if Satan casts out Satan, he is divided against himself. How then will his kingdom stand?
Matthew 12:27 And if I cast out demons by Beelzebul, your sons cast them out? Therefore they will be your judges.
Matthew 12:28 But if it is the kingdom of God has come upon you.
Matthew 12:29 Or he may plunder his house.
Matthew 12:30  Whoever is not with me is against me, and whoever does not gather with me scatters.
Matthew 12:31  the blasphemy against the Spirit will not be forgiven.
Matthew 12:32 And whoever speaks a word this age or in the age to come.
Matthew 12:33  for the tree is known by its fruit.
Matthew 12:34  For out of the abundance of the heart the mouth speaks.
Matthew 12:35  The good person out of his good treasure brings forth good, and the evil person out of his evil treasure brings forth evil.
Matthew 12:36 I tell you, every careless word they speak,
Matthew 12:37 for by your words you will be justified, and by your words you will be condemned.”
Matthew 12:38 Then some of the scribes and Pharisees answered him, saying, “Teacher, we wish to see a sign from you.”
Matthew 12:39 But he answered them,  adulterous generation seeks for a sign, but no sign will be given to it except the sign of the prophet Jonah.
Matthew 12:40 For so will the Son of Man be three days and three nights in the heart of the earth.
Matthew 12:41  something greater than Jonah is here.
Matthew 12:42  something greater than Solomon is here.
Matthew 12:43 “When waterless places seeking rest, but finds none.
Matthew 12:44 Then it says, ‘I will return to my house from which I came.’ And when it comes, it finds the house empty, swept, and put in order.
Matthew 12:45 Then it goes and brings with it seven other spirits more evil than itself, and they enter and dwell there, and evil generation.”
Matthew 12:46 While he was still speaking to the people, behold,
Matthew 12:47
Matthew 12:48 But he replied to the man who told him, “Who is my mother, and who are my brothers?”
Matthew 12:49 And stretching out his hand toward his disciples, he said, “Here are my mother and my brothers!
Matthew 12:50 For does the will of my Father in heaven is my brother and sister and mother.”
Matthew 13:1 That same day Jesus went out of the house and sat beside the sea.
Matthew 13:2 And great crowds gathered about him, so that he got into a boat and sat down. And the whole crowd stood on the beach.
Matthew 13:3 And “A sower went out to sow.
Matthew 13:4 And as he sowed, some seeds fell along the path, and the birds came and devoured them.
Matthew 13:5 Other seeds fell on rocky ground, where they did not have much soil, and immediately they sprang up, since they had no depth of soil,
Matthew 13:6 but they withered away.
Matthew 13:7 Other seeds fell among thorns, and the thorns grew up and choked them.
Matthew 13:8 Other seeds fell on good soil and produced grain, some a hundredfold, some sixty, some thirty.
Matthew 13:9   let him hear.”
Matthew 13:10 Then the disciples came and said to him, “Why do you speak to them in parables?”
Matthew 13:11 And he answered them,  the secrets of the kingdom of heaven, but to them it has not been given.
Matthew 13:12  even what he has will be taken away.
Matthew 13:13 This is why I speak to them in parables, because nor do they understand.
Matthew 13:14 Indeed, in their case the prophecy of Isaiah is fulfilled that says:  “‘“You will indeed hear but never understand, and you will indeed see but never perceive.”
Matthew 13:15 For this people's heart has grown dull, and with their ears turn, and I would heal them.’
Matthew 13:16 But blessed are your eyes, for they see, and your ears, for they hear.
Matthew 13:17  many prophets and righteous people longed to see what you see, and did not see it, and to hear what you hear, and did not hear it.
Matthew 13:18  “Hear then the parable of the sower:
Matthew 13:19 When anyone hears the word of the evil one comes and snatches away what has been sown in his heart. This is what was sown along the path.
Matthew 13:20 As for what was sown on rocky ground, this is the one who hears the word and immediately receives it with joy,
Matthew 13:21 yet he has no root in himself, but
Matthew 13:22 As for what was sown among thorns, this is the one who hears the word, but the deceitfulness of riches choke the word, and it proves unfruitful.
Matthew 13:23 As for what was sown on good soil, this is the one who hears the word and a hundredfold, in another sixty, and in another thirty.”
Matthew 13:24 He put another parable before them, saying,  “The kingdom of heaven may be compared to a man who sowed good seed in his field,
Matthew 13:25 but while his men were sleeping, his enemy came and sowed weeds  among the wheat and went away.
Matthew 13:26 So when the plants came up and bore grain, then the weeds appeared also.
Matthew 13:27 And the servants  of the master of the house came and said to him, ‘Master, did you not sow good seed in your field? How then does it have weeds?’
Matthew 13:28 He said to them, ‘An enemy has done this.’ So the servants said to him, ‘Then do you want us to go and gather them?’
Matthew 13:29 But he said, ‘No, lest in gathering the weeds you root up the wheat along with them.
Matthew 13:30 Let both grow together until the harvest, and at harvest time I will tell the reapers, “Gather the weeds first and bind them in bundles to be burned, but gather the wheat into my barn.”’”
Matthew 13:31 He put another parable before them, saying,  a grain of mustard seed that a man took and sowed in his field.
Matthew 13:32 It is the smallest of all seeds, but when it has grown it is larger than all the garden plants and becomes a tree, so that the birds of the air come and make nests in its branches.”
Matthew 13:33 He told them another parable.  all leavened.”
Matthew 13:34  All these things Jesus said to the crowds in parables; indeed, he said nothing to them without a parable.
Matthew 13:35 This was to fulfill what was spoken by the prophet: since the foundation of the world.”
Matthew 13:36 Then he left the crowds and went into “Explain to us the parable of the weeds of the field.”
Matthew 13:37 He answered, “The one who sows the good seed is the Son of Man.
Matthew 13:38 The field is the world, and the good seed is the sons of the evil one,
Matthew 13:39 and the enemy who sowed them is the devil. the end of the age, and the reapers are angels.
Matthew 13:40 Just as the weeds the end of the age.
Matthew 13:41  all law-breakers,
Matthew 13:42  there will be weeping and gnashing of teeth.
Matthew 13:43 Then He who has ears, let him hear.
Matthew 13:44 “The kingdom of heaven buys that field.
Matthew 13:45 “Again, the kingdom of heaven is like a merchant in search of fine pearls,
Matthew 13:46 who, on finding bought it.
Matthew 13:47 “Again, the kingdom of heaven is gathered fish of every kind.
Matthew 13:48 When it was full, men drew it ashore and sat down and sorted the good into containers but threw away the bad.
Matthew 13:49 So it will be at separate the evil from the righteous
Matthew 13:50  there will be weeping and gnashing of teeth.
Matthew 13:51  “Have you understood all these things?” They said to him, “Yes.”
Matthew 13:52 And he said to them, “Therefore every brings out of his treasure what is new and what is old.”
Matthew 13:53 And when Jesus had finished these parables, he went away from there,
Matthew 13:54  they were astonished, and said, “Where did this man get this wisdom and these mighty works?
Matthew 13:55  his brothers James and Joseph and Simon and Judas?
Matthew 13:56 And are not all his sisters with us? Where then did this man get all these things?”
Matthew 13:57 And “A prophet is not without honor except in his hometown and in his own household.”
Matthew 13:58 And he did not do many mighty works there, because of their unbelief.
Matthew 14:1  Herod the tetrarch heard about the fame of Jesus,
Matthew 14:2 and he said to his servants, “This is John the Baptist. He has been raised from the dead; that is why these miraculous powers are at work in him.”
Matthew 14:3 For
Matthew 14:4 because John had been saying to him, “It is not lawful for you to have her.”
Matthew 14:5 And though he wanted to put him to death, a prophet.
Matthew 14:6 But when Herod's birthday came, the daughter of Herodias danced before the company and pleased Herod,
Matthew 14:7 so that he promised with an oath to give her whatever she might ask.
Matthew 14:8 Prompted by her mother, she said, “Give me the head of John the Baptist here on a platter.”
Matthew 14:9 And the king was sorry, but because of his oaths and his guests he commanded it to be given.
Matthew 14:10 He sent and had John beheaded in the prison,
Matthew 14:11 and his head was brought on a platter and given to the girl, and she brought it to her mother.
Matthew 14:12 And his disciples came and took the body and buried it, and they went and told Jesus.
Matthew 14:13 Now when Jesus heard this, he withdrew from there in a boat to a desolate place by himself. But when the crowds heard it, they followed him on foot from the towns.
Matthew 14:14 When he went ashore he he had compassion on them and healed their sick.
Matthew 14:15 Now when it was evening, the disciples came to him and said, “This is a desolate place, and the day is now over; send the crowds away to go into the villages and buy food for themselves.”
Matthew 14:16 But Jesus said, “They need not go away; you give them something to eat.”
Matthew 14:17 They said to him, “We have only five loaves here and two fish.”
Matthew 14:18 And he said, “Bring them here to me.”
Matthew 14:19 Then he ordered the crowds to sit down on the grass, and taking the five loaves and the two fish, said a blessing. Then he broke the loaves and gave them to the disciples, and the disciples gave them to the crowds.
Matthew 14:20 And they all ate and were satisfied. And they took up twelve baskets full of the broken pieces left over.
Matthew 14:21 And those who ate were about five thousand men, besides women and children.
Matthew 14:22  made the disciples get into the boat and go before him to the other side, while he dismissed the crowds.
Matthew 14:23 And after he had dismissed the crowds, evening came, he was there alone,
Matthew 14:24 but the boat by this time was a long way  beaten by the waves, for the wind was against them.
Matthew 14:25 And  he came to them, walking on the sea.
Matthew 14:26 But when the disciples saw him walking on the sea, they were terrified, and said, “It is a ghost!” and they cried out in fear.
Matthew 14:27 But immediately Jesus spoke to them, saying,  Do not be afraid.”
Matthew 14:28 And Peter answered him, “Lord, if it is you, command me to come to you on the water.”
Matthew 14:29 He said, “Come.” So Peter got out of the boat and walked on the water and came to Jesus.
Matthew 14:30 But when he saw the wind, “Lord, save me.”
Matthew 14:31 Jesus immediately reached out his hand and took hold of him, saying to him,  doubt?”
Matthew 14:32 And when they got into the boat, the wind ceased.
Matthew 14:33 And the Son of God.”
Matthew 14:34  Gennesaret.
Matthew 14:35 And when the men of that place recognized him, they sent around to all that region and brought to him all who were sick
Matthew 14:36 and implored him that they might only touch as many as touched it were made well.
Matthew 15:1  from Jerusalem and said,
Matthew 15:2  For they do not wash their hands when they eat.”
Matthew 15:3 He answered them, “And why do you break the commandment of God for the sake of your tradition?
Matthew 15:4 For God commanded, ‘Whoever reviles father or mother must surely die.’
Matthew 15:5 But you say, ‘If anyone tells his father or his mother, “What you would have gained from me is given to God,”
Matthew 15:6 he need not honor his father.’ So for the sake of your tradition you have  of God.
Matthew 15:7  You hypocrites! Well did Isaiah prophesy of you, when he said:
Matthew 15:8  “‘This people honors me with their lips, but their heart is far from me;
Matthew 15:9 in vain do they worship me, teaching as doctrines the commandments of men.’”
Matthew 15:10 And he called the people to him and said to them,  “Hear and understand:
Matthew 15:11  it is not what goes into the mouth that defiles a person, but what comes out of the mouth; this defiles a person.”
Matthew 15:12 Then the disciples came and said to him, “Do you know that the Pharisees were offended when they heard this saying?”
Matthew 15:13 He answered,  will be rooted up.
Matthew 15:14 Let them alone; if the blind lead the blind, both will fall into a pit.”
Matthew 15:15 But Peter said to him, “Explain the parable to us.”
Matthew 15:16 And he said,  “Are you also still without understanding?
Matthew 15:17 Do you not see that
Matthew 15:18 But what comes out of the mouth proceeds from the heart, and this defiles a person.
Matthew 15:19 For out of the heart come slander.
Matthew 15:20  to eat with unwashed hands does not defile anyone.”
Matthew 15:21  And Jesus went away from there and withdrew to the district of Tyre and Sidon.
Matthew 15:22 And behold, “Have mercy on me, O Lord, Son of David; my daughter is severely oppressed by a demon.”
Matthew 15:23 But he did not answer her a word. And his disciples came and begged him, saying, “Send her away, for she is crying out after us.”
Matthew 15:24 He answered,  “I was sent only to the lost sheep of the house of Israel.”
Matthew 15:25 But she came and knelt before him, saying, “Lord, help me.”
Matthew 15:26 And he answered, “It is not right to take the children's bread and throw it to the dogs.”
Matthew 15:27 She said, “Yes, Lord, yet even the dogs eat the crumbs that fall from their masters' table.”
Matthew 15:28 Then Jesus answered her, “O woman,
Matthew 15:29  went up on the mountain and sat down there.
Matthew 15:30 And great crowds came to him, bringing with them the lame, the blind, the crippled, the mute, and many others, and they put them at his feet, and he healed them,
Matthew 15:31  the God of Israel.
Matthew 15:32  “I have compassion on the crowd because they have been with me now three days and have nothing to eat. And I am unwilling to send them away hungry, lest they faint on the way.”
Matthew 15:33 And the disciples said to him, “Where are we to get enough bread in such a desolate place to feed so great a crowd?”
Matthew 15:34 And Jesus said to them, “How many loaves do you have?” They said, “Seven, and a few small fish.”
Matthew 15:35 And directing the crowd to sit down on the ground,
Matthew 15:36 he took the seven loaves and the fish, and having given thanks he broke them and gave them to the disciples, and the disciples gave them to the crowds.
Matthew 15:37 And they all ate and were satisfied. And they took up seven baskets full of the broken pieces left over.
Matthew 15:38 Those who ate were four thousand men, besides women and children.
Matthew 15:39 And after sending away the crowds, he got into the boat and went to the region of Magadan.
Matthew 16:1  a sign from heaven.
Matthew 16:2 He answered them, “When it is evening, you say, ‘It will be fair weather, for the sky is red.’
Matthew 16:3 And in the morning, ‘It will be stormy today, for the sky is red and threatening.’ the signs of the times.
Matthew 16:4  he left them and departed.
Matthew 16:5 When the disciples reached the other side, they had forgotten to bring any bread.
Matthew 16:6 Jesus said to them, “Watch and the leaven of the Pharisees and Sadducees.”
Matthew 16:7 And they began discussing it among themselves, saying, “We brought no bread.”
Matthew 16:8 But “O you of little faith, why are you discussing among yourselves the fact that you have no bread?
Matthew 16:9  the five loaves for the five thousand, and how many baskets you gathered?
Matthew 16:10 Or the seven loaves for the four thousand, and how many baskets you gathered?
Matthew 16:11 How is it that you fail to understand that I did not speak about bread? Beware of the leaven of the Pharisees and Sadducees.”
Matthew 16:12  the teaching of the Pharisees and Sadducees.
Matthew 16:13  Now when Jesus came into the district of Caesarea Philippi, he asked his disciples, “Who do people say that the Son of Man is?”
Matthew 16:14 And they said, “Some say Elijah, and others Jeremiah or one of the prophets.”
Matthew 16:15 He said to them, “But who do you say that I am?”
Matthew 16:16 Simon Peter replied, the living God.”
Matthew 16:17 And Jesus answered him,  but my Father who is in heaven.
Matthew 16:18 And I tell you,  shall not prevail against it.
Matthew 16:19 I will give you  in heaven.”
Matthew 16:20  Then he strictly charged the disciples to tell no one that he was the Christ.
Matthew 16:21  the third day be raised.
Matthew 16:22 And Peter took him aside and began to rebuke him, saying, “Far be it from you, Lord!  This shall never happen to you.”
Matthew 16:23 But he turned and said to Peter,  are not setting your mind on the things of God, but on the things of man.”
Matthew 16:24 Then Jesus told his disciples, “If anyone would come after me, let him take up his cross and follow me.
Matthew 16:25 For  will lose it, but whoever loses his life for my sake will find it.
Matthew 16:26 For what shall a man give in return for his soul?
Matthew 16:27  then he will repay each person according to what he has done.
Matthew 16:28 Truly, I say to you, there are some standing here who will not coming in his kingdom.”
Matthew 17:1  Peter and James, and John his brother, and led them up a high mountain by themselves.
Matthew 17:2 And he was his clothes became white as light.
Matthew 17:3 And behold, there appeared to them Moses and Elijah, talking with him.
Matthew 17:4 And Peter said to Jesus, “Lord, it is good that we are here. If you wish, I will make three tents here, one for you and one for Moses and one for Elijah.”
Matthew 17:5 He was still speaking when, behold, listen to him.”
Matthew 17:6 When they fell on their faces and were terrified.
Matthew 17:7 But Jesus came and have no fear.”
Matthew 17:8 And when they lifted up their eyes, they saw no one but Jesus only.
Matthew 17:9  “Tell no one the vision, until the Son of Man is raised from the dead.”
Matthew 17:10 And the disciples asked him, “Then why do the scribes say that first Elijah must come?”
Matthew 17:11 He answered, “Elijah does come, and he will restore all things.
Matthew 17:12 But I tell you that Elijah has already come, and they did not recognize him, but So also the Son of Man will certainly suffer at their hands.”
Matthew 17:13  Then the disciples understood that he was speaking to them of John the Baptist.
Matthew 17:14  And when they came to the crowd, a man came up to him and, kneeling before him,
Matthew 17:15 said, “Lord, have mercy on my son, for he has seizures and he suffers terribly. For often he falls into the fire, and often into the water.
Matthew 17:16 And I brought him to your disciples, and they could not heal him.”
Matthew 17:17 And Jesus answered, “O faithless and How long am I to bear with you? Bring him here to me.”
Matthew 17:18 And Jesus
Matthew 17:19 Then the disciples came to Jesus privately and said, “Why could we not cast it out?”
Matthew 17:20 He said to them,
Matthew 17:21
Matthew 17:22   in Galilee, Jesus said to them, “The Son of Man is about to be delivered into the hands of men,
Matthew 17:23 and they will kill him, and he will be raised on the third day.” And they were greatly distressed.
Matthew 17:24  the two-drachma tax went up to Peter and said, “Does your teacher not pay the tax?”
Matthew 17:25 He said, “Yes.” And when he came into the house, Jesus spoke to him first, saying,  tax? From their sons or from others?”
Matthew 17:26 And when he said, “From others,” Jesus said to him, “Then the sons are free.
Matthew 17:27 However, not to give offense to them, go to the sea and cast a hook and take the first fish that comes up, and when you open its mouth you will find a shekel.  Take that and give it to them for me and for yourself.”
Matthew 18:1  At that time the disciples came to Jesus, saying, “Who is the greatest in the kingdom of heaven?”
Matthew 18:2 And calling to him a child, he put him in the midst of them
Matthew 18:3 and said, “Truly, I say to you, unless you will never enter the kingdom of heaven.
Matthew 18:4  greatest in the kingdom of heaven.
Matthew 18:5  “Whoever receives one such child in my name receives me,
Matthew 18:6 but  it would be better for him to have a great millstone fastened around his neck and to be drowned in the depth of the sea.
Matthew 18:7 “Woe to the world for but woe to the one by whom the temptation comes!
Matthew 18:8  the eternal fire.
Matthew 18:9   of fire.
Matthew 18:10 “See that you do not despise
Matthew 18:11
Matthew 18:12  If a man has a hundred sheep, and one of them has gone astray, does he not leave the ninety-nine on the mountains and go in search of the one that went astray?
Matthew 18:13 And if he finds it, truly, I say to you, he rejoices over it more than over the ninety-nine that never went astray.
Matthew 18:14 So  Father who is in heaven that one of these little ones should perish.
Matthew 18:15  gained your brother.
Matthew 18:16 But if he does not listen, take one or two others along with you, that every charge may be established by the evidence of two or three witnesses.
Matthew 18:17 If he refuses to listen to them, a tax collector.
Matthew 18:18 Truly, I say to you,  in heaven.
Matthew 18:19 Again I say to you, if two of you it will be done for them by my Father in heaven.
Matthew 18:20 For where two or three are there am I among them.”
Matthew 18:21 Then Peter came up and said to him, “Lord, how often As many as seven times?”
Matthew 18:22 Jesus said to him, “I do not say to you seven times, but seventy-seven times.
Matthew 18:23 “Therefore the kingdom of heaven may be compared to a king who wished
Matthew 18:24 When he began to settle, one was brought to him who owed him
Matthew 18:25  children and all that he had, and payment to be made.
Matthew 18:26 So the servant fell on his knees, imploring him, ‘Have patience with me, and I will pay you everything.’
Matthew 18:27 And out of pity for him, the master of that servant released him and forgave him the debt.
Matthew 18:28 But when that same servant went out, he found one of his fellow servants who owed him a hundred  and seizing him, he began to choke him, saying, ‘Pay what you owe.’
Matthew 18:29 So his fellow servant fell down and pleaded with him, ‘Have patience with me, and I will pay you.’
Matthew 18:30 He refused and went and put him in prison until he should pay the debt.
Matthew 18:31 When his fellow servants saw what had taken place, they were greatly distressed, and they went and reported to their master all that had taken place.
Matthew 18:32 Then his master summoned him and said to him, ‘You wicked servant! I forgave you all that debt because you pleaded with me.
Matthew 18:33  And should not you have had mercy on your fellow servant, as I had mercy on you?’
Matthew 18:34  until he should pay all his debt.
Matthew 18:35  from your heart.”
Matthew 19:1 Now when Jesus had finished these sayings, he went away from the region of Judea beyond the Jordan.
Matthew 19:2 And large crowds followed him, and he healed them there.
Matthew 19:3 And Pharisees came up to him and “Is it lawful to divorce one's wife for any cause?”
Matthew 19:4 He answered,  “Have you not read that he who created them from the beginning made them male and female,
Matthew 19:5 and said, the two shall become one flesh’?
Matthew 19:6 So they are no longer two but one flesh. What therefore God has joined together, let not man separate.”
Matthew 19:7 They said to him, “Why then did Moses command one to give a certificate of divorce and to send her away?”
Matthew 19:8 He said to them, “Because of your hardness of heart Moses allowed you to divorce your wives, but from the beginning it was not so.
Matthew 19:9
Matthew 19:10 The disciples said to him, “If such is the case of a man with his wife, it is better not to marry.”
Matthew 19:11 But he said to them,  whom it is given.
Matthew 19:12 For there are eunuchs who have been so from birth, and there are eunuchs who have been made eunuchs by men, and there are eunuchs who have made themselves eunuchs for the sake of the kingdom of heaven. Let the one who is able to receive this receive it.”
Matthew 19:13  rebuked the people,
Matthew 19:14 but Jesus said,  come to me and do not hinder them, for to such belongs the kingdom of heaven.”
Matthew 19:15 And he laid his hands on them and went away.
Matthew 19:16  eternal life?”
Matthew 19:17 And he said to him, “Why do you ask me about what is good? There is only one who is good. If you would enter life, keep the commandments.”
Matthew 19:18 He said to him, “Which ones?” And Jesus said,  “You shall not murder, You shall not commit adultery, You shall not steal, You shall not bear false witness,
Matthew 19:19 Honor your father and mother, and, You shall love your neighbor as yourself.”
Matthew 19:20 The young man said to him, “All these I have kept. What do I still lack?”
Matthew 19:21 Jesus said to him, “If you would be treasure in heaven; and come, follow me.”
Matthew 19:22  When the young man heard this he went away sorrowful, for he had great possessions.
Matthew 19:23 And Jesus said to his disciples, “Truly, I say to you, only with difficulty will a rich person enter the kingdom of heaven.
Matthew 19:24  the kingdom of God.”
Matthew 19:25 When the disciples heard this, they were greatly astonished, saying, “Who then can be saved?”
Matthew 19:26 But Jesus “With man this is impossible, but with God all things are possible.”
Matthew 19:27 Then Peter said in reply, “See, we have left everything and followed you. What then will we have?”
Matthew 19:28 Jesus said to them, “Truly, I say to you, in the new world, judging the twelve tribes of Israel.
Matthew 19:29  inherit eternal life.
Matthew 19:30 But first will be last, and the last first.
Matthew 20:1 “For the kingdom of heaven is like a master of a house who went out early in the morning to hire laborers for his vineyard.
Matthew 20:2 After agreeing with the laborers for a denarius  a day, he sent them into his vineyard.
Matthew 20:3 And going out about the third hour he saw others standing idle in the marketplace,
Matthew 20:4 and to them he said, ‘You go into the vineyard too, and whatever is right I will give you.’
Matthew 20:5 So they went. Going out again about the sixth hour and the ninth hour, he did the same.
Matthew 20:6 And about the eleventh hour he went out and found others standing. And he said to them, ‘Why do you stand here idle all day?’
Matthew 20:7 They said to him, ‘Because no one has hired us.’ He said to them, ‘You go into the vineyard too.’
Matthew 20:8 And foreman, ‘Call the laborers and pay them their wages, beginning with the last, up to the first.’
Matthew 20:9 And when those hired about the eleventh hour came, each of them received a denarius.
Matthew 20:10 Now when those hired first came, they thought they would receive more, but each of them also received a denarius.
Matthew 20:11 And on receiving it they grumbled at the master of the house,
Matthew 20:12 saying, ‘These last worked only one hour, and you have made them equal to us who have borne the burden of the day and the scorching heat.’
Matthew 20:13 But he replied to one of them, ‘Friend, I am doing you no wrong. Did you not agree with me for a denarius?
Matthew 20:14 Take what belongs to you and go. I choose to give to this last worker as I give to you.
Matthew 20:15
Matthew 20:16 So the last will be first, and the first last.”
Matthew 20:17  And as Jesus was going up to Jerusalem, he took the twelve disciples aside, and on the way he said to them,
Matthew 20:18 “See, condemn him to death
Matthew 20:19 and the third day.”
Matthew 20:20  kneeling before him she asked him for something.
Matthew 20:21 And he said to her, “What do you want?” She said to him, “Say that these two sons of mine in your kingdom.”
Matthew 20:22 Jesus answered,  to drink the cup that I am to drink?” They said to him, “We are able.”
Matthew 20:23 He said to them,  prepared by my Father.”
Matthew 20:24 And when the ten heard it, they were indignant at the two brothers.
Matthew 20:25 But Jesus called them to him and said,  lord it over them, and their great ones exercise authority over them.
Matthew 20:26
Matthew 20:27 and whoever would be first among you must be your slave,
Matthew 20:28 even as the Son of Man came not to be served but many.”
Matthew 20:29  And as they went out of Jericho, a great crowd followed him.
Matthew 20:30 And behold, there were two blind men sitting by the roadside, and when they heard that Jesus was passing by, they cried out, “Lord, Son of David!”
Matthew 20:31 The crowd rebuked them, telling them to be silent, but they cried out all the more, “Lord, have mercy on us, Son of David!”
Matthew 20:32 And stopping, Jesus called them and said, “What do you want me to do for you?”
Matthew 20:33 They said to him, “Lord, let our eyes be opened.”
Matthew 20:34 And Jesus in pity touched their eyes, and immediately they recovered their sight and followed him.
Matthew 21:1  sent two disciples,
Matthew 21:2 saying to them, “Go into the village in front of you, and immediately you will find a donkey tied, and a colt with her. Untie them and bring them to me.
Matthew 21:3 If anyone says anything to you, you shall say, ‘The Lord needs them,’ and he will send them at once.”
Matthew 21:4 This took place to fulfill what was spoken by the prophet, saying,
Matthew 21:5   the foal of a beast of burden.’”
Matthew 21:6 The disciples went and did as Jesus had directed them.
Matthew 21:7 They brought the donkey and the colt and put on them their cloaks, and he sat on them.
Matthew 21:8 Most of the crowd spread their cloaks on the road, and others cut branches from the trees and spread them on the road.
Matthew 21:9 And the crowds that went before him and that followed him were shouting, in the highest!”
Matthew 21:10 And when he entered Jerusalem, the whole city was stirred up, saying, “Who is this?”
Matthew 21:11 And the crowds said, “This is from Nazareth of Galilee.”
Matthew 21:12  pigeons.
Matthew 21:13 He said to them, “It is written, you make it a den of robbers.”
Matthew 21:14  And the blind and the lame came to him in the temple, and he healed them.
Matthew 21:15  “Hosanna to the Son of David!” they were indignant,
Matthew 21:16 and they said to him, “Do you hear what these are saying?” And Jesus said to them, “Yes; infants and nursing babies you have prepared praise’?”
Matthew 21:17 And Bethany and lodged there.
Matthew 21:18  he became hungry.
Matthew 21:19  And seeing a fig tree by the wayside, he went to it and found nothing on it but only leaves. And he said to it, “May no fruit ever come from you again!” And the fig tree withered at once.
Matthew 21:20 When the disciples saw it, they marveled, saying, “How did the fig tree wither at once?”
Matthew 21:21 And Jesus answered them,  ‘Be taken up and thrown into the sea,’ it will happen.
Matthew 21:22 And if you have faith.”
Matthew 21:23  “By what authority are you doing these things, and who gave you this authority?”
Matthew 21:24 Jesus answered them, “I also will ask you one question, and if you tell me the answer, then I also will tell you by what authority I do these things.
Matthew 21:25 The baptism of John, ‘Why then did you not believe him?’
Matthew 21:26 But if we say, ‘From man,’ a prophet.”
Matthew 21:27 So they answered Jesus, “We do not know.” And he said to them, “Neither will I tell you by what authority I do these things.
Matthew 21:28  the vineyard today.’
Matthew 21:29 And he answered, ‘I will not,’ but afterward he changed his mind and went.
Matthew 21:30 And he went to the other son and said the same. And he answered, ‘I go, sir,’ but did not go.
Matthew 21:31 Which of the two did the will of his father?” They said, “The first.” Jesus said to them, “Truly, I say to you, the kingdom of God before you.
Matthew 21:32 For John came to you change your minds and believe him.
Matthew 21:33  went into another country.
Matthew 21:34 When the season for fruit drew near, he sent his servants to get his fruit.
Matthew 21:35  stoned another.
Matthew 21:36  Again he sent other servants, more than the first. And they did the same to them.
Matthew 21:37 Finally he sent his son to them, saying, ‘They will respect my son.’
Matthew 21:38 But when the tenants saw the son, they said to themselves, let us kill him and have his inheritance.’
Matthew 21:39 And they took him and threw him out of the vineyard and killed him.
Matthew 21:40  When therefore the owner of the vineyard comes, what will he do to those tenants?”
Matthew 21:41 They said to him, let out the vineyard to other tenants who will give him the fruits in their seasons.”
Matthew 21:42 Jesus said to them,   this was the Lord's doing, and it is marvelous in our eyes’?
Matthew 21:43 Therefore I tell you, the kingdom of God producing its fruits.
Matthew 21:44 And
Matthew 21:45 When the chief priests and the Pharisees heard his parables, they perceived that he was speaking about them.
Matthew 21:46 And a prophet.
Matthew 22:1 And again Jesus spoke to them in parables, saying,
Matthew 22:2  a wedding feast for his son,
Matthew 22:3 and  to call those who were invited to the wedding feast, but they would not come.
Matthew 22:4  my oxen and my fat calves have been slaughtered, and everything is ready. Come to the wedding feast.”’
Matthew 22:5 But they paid no attention and went off, one to his farm, another to his business,
Matthew 22:6 while the rest seized his servants, killed them.
Matthew 22:7 The king was angry, and he sent his troops and destroyed those murderers and burned their city.
Matthew 22:8 Then he said to his servants, ‘The wedding feast is ready, but those invited were not worthy.
Matthew 22:9 Go therefore to the main roads and invite to the wedding feast as many as you find.’
Matthew 22:10 And those servants went out into the roads and gathered all whom they found, both bad and good. So the wedding hall was filled with guests.
Matthew 22:11 “But when the king came in to look at the guests, he saw there a man who had no wedding garment.
Matthew 22:12 And he said to him, ‘Friend, how did you get in here without a wedding garment?’ And he was speechless.
Matthew 22:13 Then the king said to the attendants, ‘Bind him hand and foot and there will be weeping and gnashing of teeth.’
Matthew 22:14 For many are chosen.”
Matthew 22:15  to entangle him in his words.
Matthew 22:16 And they sent
Matthew 22:17 Tell us, then, what you think. Is it lawful to pay Caesar, or not?”
Matthew 22:18 But Jesus, aware of their malice, said, “Why put me to the test, you hypocrites?
Matthew 22:19 Show me the coin for the tax.” And they brought him a denarius.
Matthew 22:20 And Jesus said to them, “Whose likeness and inscription is this?”
Matthew 22:21 They said, “Caesar's.” Then he said to them,  “Therefore render to Caesar the things that are Caesar's, and to God the things that are God's.”
Matthew 22:22 When they heard it, they marveled. And they left him and went away.
Matthew 22:23 The same day who say that there is no resurrection, and they asked him a question,
Matthew 22:24 saying, “Teacher, Moses said, ‘If a man dies having no children, his brother must marry the widow and raise up offspring for his brother.’
Matthew 22:25 Now there were seven brothers among us. The first married and died, and having no offspring left his wife to his brother.
Matthew 22:26 So too the second and third, down to the seventh.
Matthew 22:27 After them all, the woman died.
Matthew 22:28 In the resurrection, therefore, of the seven, whose wife will she be? For they all had her.”
Matthew 22:29 But Jesus answered them, “You are wrong, the power of God.
Matthew 22:30 For in the resurrection they neither are given in marriage, but are like angels in heaven.
Matthew 22:31 And as for the resurrection of the dead, have you not read what was said to you by God:
Matthew 22:32  ‘I am the God of Abraham, and the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob’? He is not God of the dead, but of the living.”
Matthew 22:33 And when the crowd heard it, they were astonished at his teaching.
Matthew 22:34  the Sadducees, they gathered together.
Matthew 22:35  to test him.
Matthew 22:36 “Teacher, which is the great commandment in the Law?”
Matthew 22:37 And he said to him,  “You shall love the Lord your God with all your heart and with all your soul and with all your mind.
Matthew 22:38 This is the great and first commandment.
Matthew 22:39 And You shall love your neighbor as yourself.
Matthew 22:40  all the Law and the Prophets.”
Matthew 22:41  were gathered together, Jesus asked them a question,
Matthew 22:42 saying, “What do you think about “The son of David.”
Matthew 22:43 He said to them, “How is it then that David, in the Spirit, calls him Lord, saying,
Matthew 22:44  “‘The Lord said to my Lord, “Sit at my right hand, until I put your enemies under your feet”’?
Matthew 22:45 If then David calls him Lord, how is he his son?”
Matthew 22:46  nor from that day did anyone dare to ask him any more questions.
Matthew 23:1 Then Jesus said to the crowds and to his disciples,
Matthew 23:2  sit on Moses' seat,
Matthew 23:3 so do and observe whatever they tell you, For they preach, but do not practice.
Matthew 23:4   and lay them on people's shoulders, but they themselves are not willing to move them with their finger.
Matthew 23:5  their fringes long,
Matthew 23:6 and they the best seats in the synagogues
Matthew 23:7 and  by others.
Matthew 23:8
Matthew 23:9  you have one Father, who is in heaven.
Matthew 23:10 Neither be called instructors, for you have one instructor, the Christ.
Matthew 23:11  The greatest among you shall be your servant.
Matthew 23:12  Whoever exalts himself will be humbled, and whoever humbles himself will be exalted.
Matthew 23:13 “But woe
Matthew 23:14
Matthew 23:15 Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! For you travel across sea and land to make a single  as yourselves.
Matthew 23:16 “Woe to ‘If anyone swears by the temple, it is nothing, but if anyone swears by the gold of the temple, he is bound by his oath.’
Matthew 23:17 You blind fools! For which is greater, the gold or the temple that has made the gold sacred?
Matthew 23:18 And you say, ‘If anyone swears by the altar, it is nothing, but if anyone swears by the gift that is on the altar, he is bound by his oath.’
Matthew 23:19 You blind men! For which is greater, the gift or the altar that makes the gift sacred?
Matthew 23:20 So whoever swears by the altar swears by it and by everything on it.
Matthew 23:21 And whoever swears by the temple swears by it and by him who dwells in it.
Matthew 23:22 And whoever swears by him who sits upon it.
Matthew 23:23  These you ought to have done, without neglecting the others.
Matthew 23:24 You blind guides, straining out a gnat and swallowing a camel!
Matthew 23:25  greed and self-indulgence.
Matthew 23:26 You blind Pharisee! First clean the inside of the cup and the plate, that the outside also may be clean.
Matthew 23:27  all uncleanness.
Matthew 23:28 So you also hypocrisy and lawlessness.
Matthew 23:29  “Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! For you build the tombs of the prophets and decorate the monuments of the righteous,
Matthew 23:30 saying, ‘If we had lived in the days of our fathers, we would not have taken part with them in shedding the blood of the prophets.’
Matthew 23:31 Thus you witness against yourselves that you are sons of those who murdered the prophets.
Matthew 23:32  Fill up, then, the measure of your fathers.
Matthew 23:33 You serpents, hell?
Matthew 23:34  persecute from town to town,
Matthew 23:35 so that on you may come all the altar.
Matthew 23:36 Truly, I say to you, all these things will come upon this generation.
Matthew 23:37  you were not willing!
Matthew 23:38 See, your house is left to you desolate.
Matthew 23:39 For I tell you, you will not see me again, until you say, ‘Blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord.’”
Matthew 24:1  Jesus left the temple and was going away, when his disciples came to point out to him the buildings of the temple.
Matthew 24:2 But he answered them, “You see all these, do you not? Truly, I say to you, there will not be left here one stone upon another that will not be thrown down.”
Matthew 24:3 As he sat on the end of the age?”
Matthew 24:4 And Jesus answered them,  “See that no one leads you astray.
Matthew 24:5 For the Christ,’ and they will lead many astray.
Matthew 24:6 And you will hear of wars and rumors of wars. See that you must take place, but the end is not yet.
Matthew 24:7 For famines and earthquakes in various places.
Matthew 24:8 All these are but the beginning of the birth pains.
Matthew 24:9 “Then you will be hated by all nations for my name's sake.
Matthew 24:10 And then many will fall away betray one another and hate one another.
Matthew 24:11 And many and lead many astray.
Matthew 24:12 And because lawlessness will be increased, the love of many will grow cold.
Matthew 24:13  But the one who endures to the end will be saved.
Matthew 24:14 And this gospel of the kingdom then the end will come.
Matthew 24:15 “So when you see the abomination of desolationlet the reader understand),
Matthew 24:16 then let those who are in Judea flee to the mountains.
Matthew 24:17  the housetop not go down to take what is in his house,
Matthew 24:18 and let the one who is in the field not turn back to take his cloak.
Matthew 24:19 And alas for women who are pregnant and for those who are nursing infants in those days!
Matthew 24:20 Pray that your flight may not be in winter or on a Sabbath.
Matthew 24:21 For then there will be such as has not been from the beginning of the world until now, no, and never will be.
Matthew 24:22 And if those days had not been cut short, no human being would be saved. But for the sake of the elect those days will be cut short.
Matthew 24:23  Then if anyone says to you, ‘Look, here is the Christ!’ or ‘There he is!’ do not believe it.
Matthew 24:24 For so as to lead astray, if possible, even the elect.
Matthew 24:25 See, I have told you beforehand.
Matthew 24:26 So, if they say to you, ‘Look, he is in the wilderness,’ do not go out. If they say, ‘Look, he is in the inner rooms,’ do not believe it.
Matthew 24:27  the coming of the Son of Man.
Matthew 24:28  Wherever the corpse is, there the vultures will gather.
Matthew 24:29 “Immediately after the stars will fall from heaven, and the powers of the heavens will be shaken.
Matthew 24:30 Then with power and great glory.
Matthew 24:31 And from one end of heaven to the other.
Matthew 24:32 “From the fig tree learn its lesson: as soon as its branch becomes tender and puts out its leaves, you know that summer is near.
Matthew 24:33 So also, when you see all these things, you know that he is near, at the very gates.
Matthew 24:34  Truly, I say to you, this generation will not pass away until all these things take place.
Matthew 24:35  my words will not pass away.
Matthew 24:36 “But concerning that day and hour but the Father only.
Matthew 24:37  so will be the coming of the Son of Man.
Matthew 24:38  the day when Noah entered the ark,
Matthew 24:39 and they were unaware until the flood came and swept them all away, so will be the coming of the Son of Man.
Matthew 24:40 Then two men will be in the field; one will be taken and one left.
Matthew 24:41  at the mill; one will be taken and one left.
Matthew 24:42 Therefore, your Lord is coming.
Matthew 24:43  the thief was coming, he would have stayed awake and would not have let his house be broken into.
Matthew 24:44 Therefore you also must be the Son of Man is coming at an hour you do not expect.
Matthew 24:45 “Who then is  whom his master has set over his household, to give them their food at the proper time?
Matthew 24:46  Blessed is that servant whom his master will find so doing when he comes.
Matthew 24:47 Truly, I say to you, he will set him over all his possessions.
Matthew 24:48 But if that wicked servant says to himself, ‘My master is delayed,’
Matthew 24:49 and begins to beat his fellow servants drunkards,
Matthew 24:50 the master of that servant will come on a day when he does not expect him and at an hour he does not know
Matthew 24:51 and will cut him in pieces and put him with the hypocrites. In that place there will be weeping and gnashing of teeth.
Matthew 25:1 “Then the kingdom of heaven will be like
Matthew 25:2 Five of them were foolish, and five were wise.
Matthew 25:3 For when the foolish took their lamps, they took no oil with them,
Matthew 25:4 but the wise took flasks of oil with their lamps.
Matthew 25:5 As the bridegroom was delayed, they all became drowsy and slept.
Matthew 25:6 But at midnight there was a cry, ‘Here is the bridegroom! Come out to meet him.’
Matthew 25:7 Then all those virgins rose and trimmed their lamps.
Matthew 25:8 And the foolish said to the wise, ‘Give us some of your oil, for our lamps are going out.’
Matthew 25:9 But the wise answered, saying, ‘Since there will not be enough for us and for you, go rather to the dealers and buy for yourselves.’
Matthew 25:10 And while they were going to buy, the bridegroom came, and the door was shut.
Matthew 25:11 Afterward the other virgins came also, saying, ‘Lord, lord, open to us.’
Matthew 25:12  I do not know you.’
Matthew 25:13  know neither the day nor the hour.
Matthew 25:14   and entrusted to them his property.
Matthew 25:15 To one he gave five went away.
Matthew 25:16 He who had received the five talents went at once and traded with them, and he made five talents more.
Matthew 25:17 So also he who had the two talents made two talents more.
Matthew 25:18 But he who had received the one talent went and dug in the ground and hid his master's money.
Matthew 25:19 Now settled accounts with them.
Matthew 25:20 And he who had received the five talents came forward, bringing five talents more, saying, ‘Master, you delivered to me five talents; here, I have made five talents more.’
Matthew 25:21 His master said to him, ‘Well done, good and the joy of your master.’
Matthew 25:22 And he also who had the two talents came forward, saying, ‘Master, you delivered to me two talents; here, I have made two talents more.’
Matthew 25:23 His master said to him, ‘Well done, good and faithful servant. You have been faithful over a little; I will set you over much. Enter into the joy of your master.’
Matthew 25:24 He also who had received the one talent came forward, saying, ‘Master, I knew you to be where you did not sow, and gathering where you scattered no seed,
Matthew 25:25 so I was afraid, and I went and hid your talent in the ground. Here, you have what is yours.’
Matthew 25:26 But his master answered him, ‘You slothful servant! You knew that I reap where I have not sown and gather where I scattered no seed?
Matthew 25:27 Then you ought to have invested my money with the bankers, and at my coming I should have received what was my own with interest.
Matthew 25:28 So take the talent from him and give it to him who has the ten talents.
Matthew 25:29  For to everyone who has will more be given, and he will have an abundance. But from the one who has not, even what he has will be taken away.
Matthew 25:30 And there will be weeping and gnashing of teeth.’
Matthew 25:31  then he will sit on his glorious throne.
Matthew 25:32 Before him the sheep from the goats.
Matthew 25:33 And he will place the sheep on his right, but the goats on the left.
Matthew 25:34 Then from the foundation of the world.
Matthew 25:35 For I was a stranger and you welcomed me,
Matthew 25:36  I was in prison and you came to me.’
Matthew 25:37 Then the righteous will answer him, saying, ‘Lord, when did we see you hungry and feed you, or thirsty and give you drink?
Matthew 25:38 And when did we see you a stranger and welcome you, or naked and clothe you?
Matthew 25:39 And when did we see you sick or in prison and visit you?’
Matthew 25:40 And  you did it to me.’
Matthew 25:41 “Then he will say to those on his left, the devil and his angels.
Matthew 25:42 For I was hungry and you gave me no food, I was thirsty and you gave me no drink,
Matthew 25:43 I was a stranger and you did not welcome me, naked and you did not clothe me, sick and in prison and you did not visit me.’
Matthew 25:44 Then they also will answer, saying, ‘Lord, when did we see you hungry or thirsty or a stranger or naked or sick or in prison, and did not minister to you?’
Matthew 25:45 Then he will answer them, saying, ‘Truly, I say to you, as you did not do it to one of the least of these, you did not do it to me.’
Matthew 25:46 And these will go away eternal life.”
Matthew 26:1 When Jesus had finished all these sayings, he said to his disciples,
Matthew 26:2  will be delivered up to be crucified.”
Matthew 26:3  Caiaphas,
Matthew 26:4  and plotted together in order to arrest Jesus by stealth and kill him.
Matthew 26:5 But they said, “Not during the feast, lest there be an uproar among the people.”
Matthew 26:6
Matthew 26:7 a woman came up to him with an alabaster flask of very expensive ointment, and she poured it on his head as he reclined at table.
Matthew 26:8 And when the disciples saw it, they were indignant, saying, “Why this waste?
Matthew 26:9 For this could have been sold for a large sum and given to the poor.”
Matthew 26:10 But Jesus, aware of this, said to them, “Why do you trouble the woman? For she has done a beautiful thing to me.
Matthew 26:11 For you will not always have me.
Matthew 26:12 In pouring this ointment on my body, she has done it to prepare me for burial.
Matthew 26:13 Truly, I say to you, wherever in memory of her.”
Matthew 26:14  Judas Iscariot, went to the chief priests
Matthew 26:15 and said, “What will you give me if I deliver him over to you?” And they thirty pieces of silver.
Matthew 26:16 And from that moment he sought an opportunity to betray him.
Matthew 26:17  the first day of Unleavened Bread the disciples came to Jesus, saying, “Where will you have us prepare for you to eat the Passover?”
Matthew 26:18 He said, “Go into the city to a certain man and say to him, My time is at hand. I will keep the Passover at your house with my disciples.’”
Matthew 26:19 And the disciples did as Jesus had directed them, and they prepared the Passover.
Matthew 26:20
Matthew 26:21 And as they were eating, he said, “Truly, I say to you, one of you will betray me.”
Matthew 26:22 And they were very sorrowful and began to say to him one after another, “Is it I, Lord?”
Matthew 26:23 He answered,  “He who has dipped his hand in the dish with me will betray me.
Matthew 26:24 The Son of Man goes It would have been better for that man if he had not been born.”
Matthew 26:25 Judas, who would betray him, answered, “Is it I, “You have said so.”
Matthew 26:26  this is my body.”
Matthew 26:27 And he took a cup, and when he had given thanks he gave it to them, saying, “Drink of it, all of you,
Matthew 26:28 for for the forgiveness of sins.
Matthew 26:29 I tell you I will not drink again of this fruit of the vine until that day when I drink it new with you in my Father's kingdom.”
Matthew 26:30  the Mount of Olives.
Matthew 26:31 Then Jesus said to them, “You will all fall away because of me this night. For it is written, ‘I will strike the shepherd, and the sheep of the flock will be scattered.’
Matthew 26:32 But after I am raised up, I will go before you to Galilee.”
Matthew 26:33  Peter answered him, “Though they all fall away because of you, I will never fall away.”
Matthew 26:34  before the rooster crows, you will deny me three times.”
Matthew 26:35  Peter said to him, “Even if I must die with you, I will not deny you!” And all the disciples said the same.
Matthew 26:36  to a place called Gethsemane, and he said to his disciples, “Sit here, while I go over there and pray.”
Matthew 26:37 And taking with him the two sons of Zebedee, he began to be sorrowful and troubled.
Matthew 26:38 Then he said to them,   with me.”
Matthew 26:39 And going a little farther he fell on his face nevertheless, not as I will, but as you will.”
Matthew 26:40 And he came to the disciples and found them sleeping. And he said to Peter, “So, could you not watch with me one hour?
Matthew 26:41  may not enter into temptation. The spirit indeed is willing, but the flesh is weak.”
Matthew 26:42 Again, for the second time, he went away and prayed, “My Father, if this cannot pass unless I drink it, your will be done.”
Matthew 26:43 And again he came and found them sleeping, for their eyes were heavy.
Matthew 26:44 So, leaving them again, he went away and prayed for the third time, saying the same words again.
Matthew 26:45 Then he came to the disciples and said to them, “Sleep and take your rest later on. the Son of Man is betrayed into the hands of sinners.
Matthew 26:46 Rise, let us be going; see, my betrayer is at hand.”
Matthew 26:47  Judas came, one of the twelve, and with him a great crowd with swords and clubs, from the chief priests and the elders of the people.
Matthew 26:48 Now the betrayer had given them a sign, saying, “The one I will kiss is the man; seize him.”
Matthew 26:49 And he came up to Jesus at once and said, “Greetings, Rabbi!” And he kissed him.
Matthew 26:50 Jesus said to him,   Then they came up and laid hands on Jesus and seized him.
Matthew 26:51 And behold, one of those who were with Jesus stretched out his hand and drew his  of the high priest and cut off his ear.
Matthew 26:52 Then Jesus said to him, “Put your sword back into its place. For all who take the sword will perish by the sword.
Matthew 26:53  legions of angels?
Matthew 26:54  But how then should the Scriptures be fulfilled, that it must be so?”
Matthew 26:55 At that hour Jesus said to the crowds, “Have you come out as against a robber, with swords and clubs to capture me? Day after day teaching, and you did not seize me.
Matthew 26:56 But Then all the disciples left him and fled.
Matthew 26:57  Caiaphas the high priest, where the scribes and the elders had gathered.
Matthew 26:58 And the guards to see the end.
Matthew 26:59 Now the chief priests and the whole council were seeking false testimony against Jesus that they might put him to death,
Matthew 26:60 but they found none, two came forward
Matthew 26:61 and said, “This man said, destroy the temple of God, and to rebuild it in three days.’”
Matthew 26:62 And the high priest stood up and said, “Have you no answer to make? What is it that these men testify against you?”
Matthew 26:63  the Son of God.”
Matthew 26:64 Jesus said to him,  coming on the clouds of heaven.”
Matthew 26:65 Then the high priest “He has uttered blasphemy. What further witnesses do we need? You have now heard his blasphemy.
Matthew 26:66 What is your judgment?” They answered, “He deserves death.”
Matthew 26:67 Then struck him. And some slapped him,
Matthew 26:68 saying, “Prophesy to us, you Christ! Who is it that struck you?”
Matthew 26:69  in the courtyard. And a servant girl came up to him and said, “You also were with Jesus the Galilean.”
Matthew 26:70 But he denied it before them all, saying, “I do not know what you mean.”
Matthew 26:71 And when he went out to the entrance, another servant girl saw him, and she said to the bystanders, “This man was with Jesus of Nazareth.”
Matthew 26:72 And again he denied it with an oath: “I do not know the man.”
Matthew 26:73 After a little while the bystanders came up and said to Peter, “Certainly you too are one of them, for your accent betrays you.”
Matthew 26:74 Then he began to invoke a curse on himself and to swear, “I do not know the man.” And immediately the rooster crowed.
Matthew 26:75 And Peter remembered the saying of Jesus,  deny me three times.” And he went out and wept bitterly.
Matthew 27:1  took counsel against Jesus to put him to death.
Matthew 27:2 And they bound him and Pilate the governor.
Matthew 27:3 Then when the thirty pieces of silver to the chief priests and the elders,
Matthew 27:4 saying, “I have sinned by betraying innocent blood.” They said, “What is that to us? See to it yourself.”
Matthew 27:5 And throwing down the pieces of silver into the temple, he departed, and he went and hanged himself.
Matthew 27:6 But the chief priests, taking the pieces of silver, said, “It is not lawful to put them into the treasury, since it is blood money.”
Matthew 27:7 So they took counsel and bought with them the potter's field as a burial place for strangers.
Matthew 27:8 Therefore to this day.
Matthew 27:9  “And they took the thirty pieces of silver, the price of him on whom a price had been set by some of the sons of Israel,
Matthew 27:10 and they gave them for the potter's field, as the Lord directed me.”
Matthew 27:11  “You have said so.”
Matthew 27:12  But when he was accused by the chief priests and elders, he gave no answer.
Matthew 27:13 Then Pilate said to him, “Do you not hear how many things they testify against you?”
Matthew 27:14 But he gave him no answer, not even to a single charge, so that the governor was greatly amazed.
Matthew 27:15  Now at the feast the governor was accustomed to release for the crowd any one prisoner whom they wanted.
Matthew 27:16 And they had then a notorious prisoner called Barabbas.
Matthew 27:17 So when they had gathered, Pilate said to them, “Whom do you want me to release for you: Barabbas, or Jesus who is called Christ?”
Matthew 27:18 For he knew that it was out of envy that they had delivered him up.
Matthew 27:19 Besides, while he was sitting on in a dream.”
Matthew 27:20 Now the chief priests and the elders persuaded the crowd to ask for Barabbas and destroy Jesus.
Matthew 27:21 The governor again said to them, “Which of the two do you want me to release for you?” And they said, “Barabbas.”
Matthew 27:22 Pilate said to them, “Then what shall I do with Jesus who is called Christ?” They all said, “Let him be crucified!”
Matthew 27:23 And he said, “Why? What evil has he done?” But they shouted all the more, “Let him be crucified!”
Matthew 27:24 So when Pilate saw that he was gaining nothing, but rather that see to it yourselves.”
Matthew 27:25 And all the people answered, on our children!”
Matthew 27:26 Then he released for them Barabbas, and having  Jesus, delivered him to be crucified.
Matthew 27:27   before him.
Matthew 27:28 And they stripped him and put a scarlet robe on him,
Matthew 27:29 and twisting together a crown of thorns, they put it on his head and put a reed in his right hand. And kneeling before him, they King of the Jews!”
Matthew 27:30 And they spit on him and took the reed and struck him on the head.
Matthew 27:31 And when they had mocked him, they stripped him of the robe and put his own clothes on him and led him away to crucify him.
Matthew 27:32  carry his cross.
Matthew 27:33  And when they came to a place called Golgotha (which means Place of a Skull),
Matthew 27:34  gall, but when he tasted it, he would not drink it.
Matthew 27:35 And when they had crucified him, they divided his garments among them by casting lots.
Matthew 27:36 Then they sat down and kept watch over him there.
Matthew 27:37 And over his head they put the charge against him, which read, “This is Jesus, the King of the Jews.”
Matthew 27:38 Then two one on the right and one on the left.
Matthew 27:39 And wagging their heads
Matthew 27:40 and saying, the Son of God, come down from the cross.”
Matthew 27:41 So also the chief priests, with the scribes and elders, mocked him, saying,
Matthew 27:42  He is the King of Israel; let him come down now from the cross, and we will believe in him.
Matthew 27:43  He trusts in God; let God deliver him now, if he desires him. For he said, ‘I am the Son of God.’”
Matthew 27:44  And the robbers who were crucified with him also reviled him in the same way.
Matthew 27:45 Now from the sixth hour
Matthew 27:46 And about the ninth hour Jesus “Eli, Eli, lema sabachthani?” that is, “My God, my God, why have you forsaken me?”
Matthew 27:47 And some of the bystanders, hearing it, said, “This man is calling Elijah.”
Matthew 27:48 And one of them at once ran and took a sponge, filled it with gave it to him to drink.
Matthew 27:49 But the others said, “Wait, let us see whether Elijah will come to save him.”
Matthew 27:50 And Jesus yielded up his spirit.
Matthew 27:51 And behold, the earth shook, and the rocks were split.
Matthew 27:52 The tombs also were opened. And many bodies of who had fallen asleep were raised,
Matthew 27:53 and coming out of the tombs after his resurrection they went into the holy city and appeared to many.
Matthew 27:54   of God!”
Matthew 27:55 There were also ministering to him,
Matthew 27:56 among whom were the mother of the sons of Zebedee.
Matthew 27:57  When it was evening, there came a rich man from Arimathea, named Joseph, who also was a disciple of Jesus.
Matthew 27:58 He went to Pilate and asked for the body of Jesus. Then Pilate ordered it to be given to him.
Matthew 27:59 And Joseph took the body and wrapped it in a clean linen shroud
Matthew 27:60 and a great stone to the entrance of the tomb and went away.
Matthew 27:61 Mary Magdalene and the other Mary were there, sitting opposite the tomb.
Matthew 27:62 The next day, that is, after the day of Preparation, the chief priests and the Pharisees gathered before Pilate
Matthew 27:63 and said, “Sir, we remember how ‘After three days I will rise.’
Matthew 27:64 Therefore order the tomb to be made secure until the third day, lest his disciples go and steal him away and tell the people, ‘He has risen from the dead,’ and the last fraud will be worse than the first.”
Matthew 27:65 Pilate said to them, “You have  of soldiers. Go, make it as secure as you can.”
Matthew 27:66 So they went and made the tomb secure by sealing the stone and setting a guard.
Matthew 28:1  the other Mary went to see the tomb.
Matthew 28:2 And behold, there was a great earthquake, for an angel of the Lord descended from heaven and came and rolled back the stone and sat on it.
Matthew 28:3  his clothing white as snow.
Matthew 28:4 And for fear of him the guards trembled and became like dead men.
Matthew 28:5 But the angel said to the women, “Do not be afraid, for I know that you seek Jesus who was crucified.
Matthew 28:6 He is not here, for he has risen,  lay.
Matthew 28:7 Then go quickly and tell his disciples that he has risen from the dead, and behold, he is going before you to Galilee; there you will see him. See, I have told you.”
Matthew 28:8 So they departed quickly from the tomb with fear and great joy, and ran to tell his disciples.
Matthew 28:9 And behold, Jesus worshiped him.
Matthew 28:10 Then Jesus said to them, “Do not be afraid; my brothers to go to Galilee, and there they will see me.”
Matthew 28:11 While they were going, behold, some of the guard went into the city and told the chief priests all that had taken place.
Matthew 28:12 And when they had assembled with the elders and taken counsel, they gave a sufficient sum of money to the soldiers
Matthew 28:13 and said, “Tell people, ‘His disciples came by night and stole him away while we were asleep.’
Matthew 28:14 And if this comes to satisfy him and keep you out of trouble.”
Matthew 28:15 So they took the money and did as they were directed. And this story has been spread among the Jews to this day.
Matthew 28:16 Now the eleven disciples went to Galilee, to the mountain to which Jesus had directed them.
Matthew 28:17 And when they saw him they worshiped him, but some doubted.
Matthew 28:18 And Jesus came and said to them,  in heaven and on earth has been given to me.
Matthew 28:19  the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Spirit,
Matthew 28:20 teaching them the end of the age.”
Mark 1:1 The beginning of the gospel of Jesus Christ,
Mark 1:2 “Behold, I send my messenger before your face, who will prepare your way,
Mark 1:3   the way of the Lord, make his paths straight,’”
Mark 1:4  for the forgiveness of sins.
Mark 1:5 And all the country of Judea and all Jerusalem were going out to him and were being baptized by him in the river Jordan, confessing their sins.
Mark 1:6 Now John was wild honey.
Mark 1:7 And he preached, saying, “After me comes he who is mightier than I, the strap of whose sandals I am not worthy to stoop down and untie.
Mark 1:8  he will baptize you with the Holy Spirit.”
Mark 1:9  came from Nazareth of Galilee and was baptized by John in the Jordan.
Mark 1:10 And when he came up out of the water, immediately he and the Spirit descending on him like a dove.
Mark 1:11 And  with you I am well pleased.”
Mark 1:12  The Spirit immediately drove him out into the wilderness.
Mark 1:13  the angels were ministering to him.
Mark 1:14  came into Galilee, proclaiming the gospel of God,
Mark 1:15 and saying,  repent and believe in the gospel.”
Mark 1:16  Passing alongside the Sea of Galilee, he saw Simon and Andrew the brother of Simon casting a net into the sea, for they were fishermen.
Mark 1:17 And Jesus said to them, “Follow me, and I will make you become
Mark 1:18 And immediately they left their nets and followed him.
Mark 1:19 And going on a little farther, he saw James the son of Zebedee and John his brother, who were in their boat mending the nets.
Mark 1:20 And immediately he called them, and they left their father Zebedee in the boat with the hired servants and followed him.
Mark 1:21  he entered the synagogue and was teaching.
Mark 1:22 And for he taught them as one who had authority, and not as the scribes.
Mark 1:23 And immediately there was in their synagogue a man with an unclean spirit. And he cried out,
Mark 1:24  the Holy One of God.”
Mark 1:25 But Jesus rebuked him, saying, “Be silent, and come out of him!”
Mark 1:26 And the unclean spirit, crying out with a loud voice, came out of him.
Mark 1:27 And they were all A new teaching with authority! He commands even the unclean spirits, and they obey him.”
Mark 1:28 And at once his fame spread everywhere throughout all the surrounding region of Galilee.
Mark 1:29  left the synagogue and entered the house of Simon and Andrew, with James and John.
Mark 1:30 Now Simon's mother-in-law lay ill with a fever, and immediately they told him about her.
Mark 1:31 And he came and took her by the hand and lifted her up, and the fever left her, and she began to serve them.
Mark 1:32 That evening at sundown they brought to him all who were sick or oppressed by demons.
Mark 1:33 And the whole city was gathered together at the door.
Mark 1:34  he would not permit the demons to speak, because they knew him.
Mark 1:35  there he prayed.
Mark 1:36 And Simon and those who were with him searched for him,
Mark 1:37 and they found him and said to him, “Everyone is looking for you.”
Mark 1:38 And he said to them, “Let us go on to the next towns, that I may preach there also, for that is why I came out.”
Mark 1:39  he went throughout all Galilee, preaching in their synagogues and casting out demons.
Mark 1:40  “If you will, you can make me clean.”
Mark 1:41 Moved with pity, he stretched out his hand and touched him and said to him, “I will; be clean.”
Mark 1:42 And immediately the leprosy left him, and he was made clean.
Mark 1:43 And  sternly charged him and sent him away at once,
Mark 1:44 and said to him,  for a proof to them.”
Mark 1:45  people were coming to him from every quarter.
Mark 2:1 And when he returned to Capernaum after some days, it was reported that he was at home.
Mark 2:2 And many were gathered together, so that there was no more room, not even at the door. And he was preaching the word to them.
Mark 2:3  And they came, bringing to him a paralytic carried by four men.
Mark 2:4 And when they could not get near him because of the crowd, they removed the roof above him, and when they had made an opening, they let down the bed on which the paralytic lay.
Mark 2:5 And when Jesus your sins are forgiven.”
Mark 2:6 Now some of the scribes were sitting there, questioning in their hearts,
Mark 2:7 “Why does this man speak like that? Who can forgive sins but God alone?”
Mark 2:8 And immediately Jesus, perceiving in his spirit that they thus questioned within themselves, said to them, “Why do you question these things in your hearts?
Mark 2:9 Which is easier, to say to the paralytic, ‘Your sins are forgiven,’ or to say, ‘Rise, take up your bed and walk’?
Mark 2:10 But that you may know that the Son of Man has authority on earth to forgive sins” — he said to the paralytic —
Mark 2:11 “I say to you, rise, pick up your bed, and go home.”
Mark 2:12 And he rose and immediately picked up his bed and went out before them all, so that they were all amazed and glorified God, saying, “We never saw anything like this!”
Mark 2:13 He went out again beside the sea, and all the crowd was coming to him, and he was teaching them.
Mark 2:14  Levi the son of Alphaeus sitting at the tax booth, and he said to him, “Follow me.” And he rose and followed him.
Mark 2:15 And as he reclined at table in his house, many tax collectors and sinners were reclining with Jesus and his disciples, for there were many who followed him.
Mark 2:16 And  with tax collectors and sinners?”
Mark 2:17 And when Jesus heard it, he said to them, “Those who are well have no need of a physician, but those who are sick. but sinners.”
Mark 2:18 Now the disciples of the Pharisees fast, but your disciples do not fast?”
Mark 2:19 And Jesus said to them,  “Can the wedding guests fast while the bridegroom is with them? As long as they have the bridegroom with them, they cannot fast.
Mark 2:20  then they will fast in that day.
Mark 2:21 No one sews a piece of unshrunk cloth on an old garment. If he does, the patch tears away from it, the new from the old, and a worse tear is made.
Mark 2:22 And no one puts new wine into old
Mark 2:23  began to pluck heads of grain.
Mark 2:24 And the Pharisees were saying to him, “Look, what is not lawful on the Sabbath?”
Mark 2:25 And he said to them,  what David did, when he was in need and was hungry, he and those who were with him:
Mark 2:26 how he entered the house of God, in the time of the bread of the Presence, which it is not lawful for any but the priests to eat, and also gave it to those who were with him?”
Mark 2:27 And he said to them,  not man for the Sabbath.
Mark 2:28 So the Son of Man is lord even of the Sabbath.”
Mark 3:1  he entered the synagogue, and a man was there with a withered hand.
Mark 3:2 And  to see whether he would heal him on the Sabbath, so that they might accuse him.
Mark 3:3 And he said to the man with the withered hand, “Come here.”
Mark 3:4 And he said to them,  “Is it lawful on the Sabbath to do good or to do harm, to save life or to kill?” But they were silent.
Mark 3:5 And he He stretched it out, and his hand was restored.
Mark 3:6  the Herodians against him, how to destroy him.
Mark 3:7  a great crowd followed, from Galilee and Judea
Mark 3:8 and Jerusalem and Tyre and Sidon. When the great crowd heard all that he was doing, they came to him.
Mark 3:9 And he told his disciples to crush him,
Mark 3:10 for to touch him.
Mark 3:11  the Son of God.”
Mark 3:12 And he strictly ordered them not to make him known.
Mark 3:13  whom he desired, and they came to him.
Mark 3:14  And he appointed twelve (whom he also named apostles) so that they might be with him and he might send them out to preach
Mark 3:15  and have authority to cast out demons.
Mark 3:16 He appointed the twelve: he gave the name Peter);
Mark 3:17  James the son of Zebedee and John the brother of James (to whom he gave the name Boanerges, that is, Sons of Thunder);
Mark 3:18 Andrew, and Philip, and Bartholomew, and
Mark 3:19 and Judas Iscariot, who betrayed him.
Mark 3:20 Then he went so that they could not even eat.
Mark 3:21  is out of his mind.”
Mark 3:22 And “He is possessed by Beelzebul,” and “by the prince of demons he casts out the demons.”
Mark 3:23  And he called them to him and said to them in parables, “How can Satan cast out Satan?
Mark 3:24 If a kingdom is divided against itself, that kingdom cannot stand.
Mark 3:25 And if a house is divided against itself, that house will not be able to stand.
Mark 3:26 And if Satan has risen up against himself and is divided, he cannot stand, but is coming to an end.
Mark 3:27 But Then indeed he may plunder his house.
Mark 3:28  “Truly, I say to you, all sins will be forgiven the children of man, and whatever blasphemies they utter,
Mark 3:29 but whoever blasphemes against the Holy Spirit never has forgiveness, but is guilty of an eternal sin” —
Mark 3:30 for they were saying, “He has an unclean spirit.”
Mark 3:31  brothers came, and standing outside they sent to him and called him.
Mark 3:32 And a crowd was sitting around him, and they said to him, “Your mother and your brothers  are outside, seeking you.”
Mark 3:33 And he answered them, “Who are my mother and my brothers?”
Mark 3:34 And looking about at those who sat around him, he said, “Here are my mother and my brothers!
Mark 3:35  does the will of God, he is my brother and sister and mother.”
Mark 4:1 Again so that he got into a boat and sat in it on the sea, and the whole crowd was beside the sea on the land.
Mark 4:2 And he was teaching them many things in parables, and in his teaching he said to them:
Mark 4:3 “Listen! Behold, a sower went out to sow.
Mark 4:4 And as he sowed, some seed fell along the path, and the birds came and devoured it.
Mark 4:5 Other seed fell on rocky ground, where it did not have much soil, and immediately it sprang up, since it had no depth of soil.
Mark 4:6 And it withered away.
Mark 4:7 Other seed fell among thorns, and the thorns grew up and choked it, and it yielded no grain.
Mark 4:8 And other seeds fell into good soil and produced grain, growing up and increasing and yielding thirtyfold and sixtyfold and a hundredfold.”
Mark 4:9 And he said,  “He who has ears to hear, let him hear.”
Mark 4:10 And when he was alone, those around him with the twelve asked him about the parables.
Mark 4:11 And he said to them,  those outside everything is in parables,
Mark 4:12  should turn and be forgiven.’”
Mark 4:13  And he said to them, “Do you not understand this parable? How then will you understand all the parables?
Mark 4:14  the word.
Mark 4:15 And these are the ones along the path, where the word is sown: when they hear, Satan immediately comes and takes away the word that is sown in them.
Mark 4:16 And these are the ones sown on rocky ground: the ones who, when they hear the word, immediately receive it with joy.
Mark 4:17 And they have no root in themselves, but
Mark 4:18 And others are the ones sown among thorns. They are those who hear the word,
Mark 4:19 but the deceitfulness of riches and the desires for other things enter in and choke the word, and it proves unfruitful.
Mark 4:20 But those that were sown on the good soil are the ones who hear the word and accept it and thirtyfold and sixtyfold and a hundredfold.”
Mark 4:21  “Is a lamp brought in to be put under a basket, or under a bed, and not on a stand?
Mark 4:22  For nothing is hidden except to be made manifest; nor is anything secret except to come to light.
Mark 4:23  If anyone has ears to hear, let him hear.”
Mark 4:24 And he said to them, “Pay attention to what you hear: with the measure you use, it will be measured to you, and still more will be added to you.
Mark 4:25  For to the one who has, more will be given, and from the one who has not, even what he has will be taken away.”
Mark 4:26 And he said,  “The kingdom of God is as if a man should scatter seed on the ground.
Mark 4:27 He sleeps and rises night and day, and the seed sprouts and grows; he knows not how.
Mark 4:28 The earth produces by itself, first the blade, then the ear, then the full grain in the ear.
Mark 4:29 But when the grain is ripe, at once he puts in the sickle, because the harvest has come.”
Mark 4:30  And he said, “With what can we compare the kingdom of God, or what parable shall we use for it?
Mark 4:31 It is like a grain of mustard seed, which, when sown on the ground, is the smallest of all the seeds on earth,
Mark 4:32 yet when it is sown it grows up and becomes larger than all the garden plants and puts out large branches, so that the birds of the air can make nests in its shade.”
Mark 4:33  as they were able to hear it.
Mark 4:34 He did not speak to them explained everything.
Mark 4:35  On that day, when evening had come, he said to them, “Let us go across to the other side.”
Mark 4:36 And leaving the crowd, they took him with them in the boat, just as he was. And other boats were with him.
Mark 4:37 And a great windstorm arose, and the waves were breaking into the boat, so that the boat was already filling.
Mark 4:38 But he was in the stern, asleep on the cushion. And they woke him and said to him, “Teacher, do you not care that we are perishing?”
Mark 4:39 And he awoke and there was a great calm.
Mark 4:40 He said to them, “Why are you so afraid? Have you still no faith?”
Mark 4:41 And they were filled with great fear and said to one another, the wind and the sea obey him?”
Mark 5:1
Mark 5:2 And when Jesus  had stepped out of the boat, immediately there met him out of the tombs a man with an unclean spirit.
Mark 5:3  He lived among the tombs. And no one could bind him anymore, not even with a chain,
Mark 5:4 for he had often been bound with shackles and chains, but he wrenched the chains apart, and he broke the shackles in pieces. No one had the strength to subdue him.
Mark 5:5 Night and day among the tombs and on the mountains he was always crying out and cutting himself with stones.
Mark 5:6 And when he saw Jesus from afar, he ran and fell down before him.
Mark 5:7 And I adjure you by God, do not torment me.”
Mark 5:8 For he was saying to him, “Come out of the man, you unclean spirit!”
Mark 5:9 And Jesus asked him, “What is your name?” He replied, “My name is Legion, for we are many.”
Mark 5:10 And he begged him earnestly not to send them out of the country.
Mark 5:11 Now a great herd of pigs was feeding there on the hillside,
Mark 5:12 and they begged him, saying, “Send us to the pigs; let us enter them.”
Mark 5:13 So he gave them permission. And the unclean spirits came out and entered the pigs; and the herd, numbering about two thousand, rushed down the steep bank into the sea and drowned in the sea.
Mark 5:14 The herdsmen fled and told it in the city and in the country. And people came to see what it was that had happened.
Mark 5:15 And they came to Jesus and saw the demon-possessed clothed and in his right mind, and they were afraid.
Mark 5:16 And those who had seen it described to them what had happened to the demon-possessed man and to the pigs.
Mark 5:17 And  to depart from their region.
Mark 5:18 As he was getting into the boat, the man who had been possessed with demons begged him that he might be with him.
Mark 5:19 And he did not permit him but said to him, “Go home to your friends and tell them how much the Lord has done for you, and how he has had mercy on you.”
Mark 5:20 And he went away and began to proclaim in the Decapolis how much Jesus had done for him, and everyone marveled.
Mark 5:21 And when Jesus had crossed again in the boat to the other side, a great crowd gathered about him, and he was beside the sea.
Mark 5:22  the rulers of the synagogue, Jairus by name, and seeing him, he fell at his feet
Mark 5:23 and implored him earnestly, saying, “My little daughter is at the point of death. Come and lay your hands on her, so that she may be made well and live.”
Mark 5:24 And he went with him. And a great crowd followed him and thronged about him.
Mark 5:25 And there was a woman who had had a discharge of blood for twelve years,
Mark 5:26 and who had suffered much under many physicians, and had spent all that she had, and was no better but rather grew worse.
Mark 5:27 She had heard the reports about Jesus and came up behind him in the crowd and touched his garment.
Mark 5:28 For she said, “If I touch even his garments, I will be made well.”
Mark 5:29  disease.
Mark 5:30 And Jesus, perceiving in himself that power had gone out from him, immediately turned about in the crowd and said, “Who touched my garments?”
Mark 5:31 And his disciples said to him, “You see the crowd pressing around you, and yet you say, ‘Who touched me?’”
Mark 5:32 And he looked around to see who had done it.
Mark 5:33 But the woman, knowing what had happened to her, came in fear and trembling and fell down before him and told him the whole truth.
Mark 5:34 And he said to her, “Daughter, disease.”
Mark 5:35 While he was still speaking, there came from the Teacher any further?”
Mark 5:36 But overhearing the ruler of the synagogue, “Do not fear, only believe.”
Mark 5:37 And he allowed no one to follow him except John the brother of James.
Mark 5:38 They came to the house of the ruler of the synagogue, and Jesus  saw a commotion, people weeping and wailing loudly.
Mark 5:39 And when he had entered, he said to them,  sleeping.”
Mark 5:40 And they laughed at him. But he put them all outside and took the child's father and mother and those who were with him and went in where the child was.
Mark 5:41  arise.”
Mark 5:42 And immediately the girl got up and began walking (for she was twelve years of age), and they were immediately overcome with amazement.
Mark 5:43 And he strictly charged them that no one should know this, and told them to give her something to eat.
Mark 6:1  his hometown, and his disciples followed him.
Mark 6:2 And many who heard him were astonished, saying, “Where did this man get these things? What is the wisdom given to him? How are such mighty works done by his hands?
Mark 6:3  they took offense at him.
Mark 6:4 And Jesus said to them,  “A prophet is not without honor, except in his hometown and among his relatives and in his own household.”
Mark 6:5 And he laid his hands on a few sick people and healed them.
Mark 6:6 AndAnd he went about among the villages teaching.
Mark 6:7  And he called the twelve and began to send them out two by two, and gave them authority over the unclean spirits.
Mark 6:8 He charged them to take nothing for their journey except a staff — no bread, no bag, no money in their belts —
Mark 6:9 but to
Mark 6:10 And he said to them, “Whenever you enter a house, stay there until you depart from there.
Mark 6:11 And if any place will not receive you and they will not listen to you, when you leave, as a testimony against them.”
Mark 6:12  that people should repent.
Mark 6:13  anointed with oil many who were sick and healed them.
Mark 6:14   has been raised from the dead. That is why these miraculous powers are at work in him.”
Mark 6:15  a prophet, like one of the prophets of old.”
Mark 6:16 But when Herod heard of it, he said, “John, whom I beheaded, has been raised.”
Mark 6:17  bound him in prison for the sake of Herodias, his brother Philip's wife, because he had married her.
Mark 6:18  “It is not lawful for you to have your brother's wife.”
Mark 6:19 And Herodias had a grudge against him and wanted to put him to death. But she could not,
Mark 6:20 for Herod heard him gladly.
Mark 6:21 But an opportunity came when Herod gave a banquet for his nobles and military commanders and the leading men of Galilee.
Mark 6:22 For when Herodias's daughter came in and danced, she pleased Herod and his guests. And the king said to the girl, “Ask me for whatever you wish, and I will give it to you.”
Mark 6:23 And he vowed to her, “Whatever you ask me, I will give you, up to half of my kingdom.”
Mark 6:24 And she went out and said to her mother, “For what should I ask?” And she said, “The head of John the Baptist.”
Mark 6:25 And she came in immediately with haste to the king and asked, saying, “I want you to give me at once the head of John the Baptist on a platter.”
Mark 6:26 And the king was exceedingly sorry, but because of his oaths and his guests he did not want to break his word to her.
Mark 6:27 And immediately the king sent an executioner with orders to bring John's  head. He went and beheaded him in the prison
Mark 6:28 and brought his head on a platter and gave it to the girl, and the girl gave it to her mother.
Mark 6:29 When his disciples heard of it, they came and took his body and laid it in a tomb.
Mark 6:30  The apostles returned to Jesus and told him all that they had done and taught.
Mark 6:31 And he said to them, “Come away by yourselves to a desolate place and rest a while.” For many were coming and going, and they had no leisure even to eat.
Mark 6:32  the boat to a desolate place by themselves.
Mark 6:33 Now many saw them going and recognized them, and they ran there on foot from all the towns and got there ahead of them.
Mark 6:34 When he went ashore he he had compassion on them, because they were like sheep without a shepherd. And he began to teach them many things.
Mark 6:35 And when it grew late, his disciples came to him and said, “This is a desolate place, and the hour is now late.
Mark 6:36  Send them away to go into the surrounding countryside and villages and buy themselves something to eat.”
Mark 6:37 But he answered them,   worth of bread and give it to them to eat?”
Mark 6:38 And he said to them, “How many loaves do you have? Go and see.” And when they had found out, they said, “Five, and two fish.”
Mark 6:39 Then he commanded them all to sit down in groups on the green grass.
Mark 6:40 So they sat down in groups, by hundreds and by fifties.
Mark 6:41 And taking the five loaves and the two fish, he said a blessing and broke the loaves and gave them to the disciples to set before the people. And he divided the two fish among them all.
Mark 6:42 And they all ate and were satisfied.
Mark 6:43 And they took up twelve baskets full of broken pieces and of the fish.
Mark 6:44 And those who ate the loaves were five thousand men.
Mark 6:45  to Bethsaida, while he dismissed the crowd.
Mark 6:46 And after he had taken leave of them, he went up on the mountain to pray.
Mark 6:47 And when evening came, the boat was out on the sea, and he was alone on the land.
Mark 6:48 And he saw that they were making headway painfully, for the wind was against them. And about He meant to pass by them,
Mark 6:49 but when they saw him walking on the sea they thought it was a ghost, and cried out,
Mark 6:50 for they all saw him and Do not be afraid.”
Mark 6:51 And he got into the boat with them, and the wind ceased. And they were utterly astounded,
Mark 6:52 for were hardened.
Mark 6:53  Gennesaret and moored to the shore.
Mark 6:54 And when they got out of the boat, the people immediately recognized him
Mark 6:55 and ran about the whole region and began to bring on their beds to wherever they heard he was.
Mark 6:56 And wherever he came, in villages, cities, or countryside, as many as touched it were made well.
Mark 7:1  who had come from Jerusalem,
Mark 7:2 they saw that some of his disciples ate with hands that were defiled, that is, unwashed.
Mark 7:3 (For the Pharisees and all the Jews do not eat unless they wash their hands properly, the elders,
Mark 7:4 and when they come from the marketplace, they do not eat unless they wash. )
Mark 7:5 And the Pharisees and the scribes asked him, “Why do your disciples not walk according to defiled hands?”
Mark 7:6 And he said to them, “Well did Isaiah prophesy of you “‘This people honors me with their lips, but their heart is far from me;
Mark 7:7 in vain do they worship me, teaching as doctrines the commandments of men.’
Mark 7:8 You leave the commandment of God and hold to the tradition of men.”
Mark 7:9 And he said to them, “You have a fine way of rejecting the commandment of God in order to establish your tradition!
Mark 7:10 For Moses said, ‘Whoever reviles father or mother must surely die.’
Mark 7:11 But you say, ‘If a man tells his father or his mother, “Whatever you would have gained from me is Corban”’ (that is, given to God)  —
Mark 7:12 then you no longer permit him to do anything for his father or mother,
Mark 7:13 thus making void the word of God by your tradition that you have handed down. And many such things you do.”
Mark 7:14 And he called the people to him again and said to them,  “Hear me, all of you, and understand:
Mark 7:15
Mark 7:16
Mark 7:17 And when he had entered his disciples asked him about the parable.
Mark 7:18 And he said to them, “Then are you also without understanding? Do you not see that whatever goes into a person from outside cannot defile him,
Mark 7:19 since it enters not his heartThus he declared all foods clean.)
Mark 7:20 And he said,  “What comes out of a person is what defiles him.
Mark 7:21 For from within, out of the heart of man, come evil thoughts, sexual immorality, theft, murder, adultery,
Mark 7:22 coveting, wickedness, deceit, foolishness.
Mark 7:23  All these evil things come from within, and they defile a person.”
Mark 7:24 And from there he arose and went away to the region of Tyre and Sidon.  And he entered a house and did not want anyone to know, yet he could not be hidden.
Mark 7:25 But immediately a woman whose little daughter had an unclean spirit heard of him and came and fell down at his feet.
Mark 7:26  a Syrophoenician by birth. And she begged him to cast the demon out of her daughter.
Mark 7:27 And he said to her, “Let the children be throw it to the dogs.”
Mark 7:28 But she answered him, “Yes, Lord; yet even the dogs under the table eat the children's crumbs.”
Mark 7:29 And he said to her, “For this statement you may go your way; the demon has left your daughter.”
Mark 7:30 And she went home and found the child lying in bed and the demon gone.
Mark 7:31  Decapolis.
Mark 7:32 And they brought to him lay his hand on him.
Mark 7:33 And after spitting touched his tongue.
Mark 7:34 And he sighed and said to him, “Ephphatha,” that is, “Be opened.”
Mark 7:35  And his ears were opened, his tongue was released, and he spoke plainly.
Mark 7:36 And the more he charged them, the more zealously they proclaimed it.
Mark 7:37 And they were astonished beyond measure, saying, “He has done all things well. He even makes the deaf hear and the mute speak.”
Mark 8:1  In those days, when again a great crowd had gathered, and they had nothing to eat, he called his disciples to him and said to them,
Mark 8:2  “I have compassion on the crowd, because they have been with me now three days and have nothing to eat.
Mark 8:3 And if I send them away hungry to their homes, they will faint on the way. And some of them have come from far away.”
Mark 8:4 And his disciples answered him, “How can one feed these people with bread here in this desolate place?”
Mark 8:5 And he asked them, “How many loaves do you have?” They said, “Seven.”
Mark 8:6 And he directed the crowd to sit down on the ground. And he took the seven loaves, and having given thanks, he broke them and gave them to his disciples to set before the people; and they set them before the crowd.
Mark 8:7 And they had a few small fish. And having blessed them, he said that these also should be set before them.
Mark 8:8 And seven baskets full.
Mark 8:9 And there were about four thousand people. And he sent them away.
Mark 8:10 And immediately he got into
Mark 8:11  to test him.
Mark 8:12 And in his spirit and said, “Why does this generation seek a sign? Truly, I say to you, no sign will be given to this generation.”
Mark 8:13 And he left them, got into the boat again, and went to the other side.
Mark 8:14 Now they had forgotten to bring bread, and they had only one loaf with them in the boat.
Mark 8:15 And he cautioned them, saying, “Watch out;
Mark 8:16 And they began discussing with one another the fact that they had no bread.
Mark 8:17 And Are your hearts hardened?
Mark 8:18  Having eyes do you not see, and having ears do you not hear? And do you not remember?
Mark 8:19 When I broke the five loaves for the five thousand, how many baskets full of broken pieces did you take up?” They said to him, “Twelve.”
Mark 8:20 “And the seven for the four thousand, how many baskets full of broken pieces did you take up?” And they said to him, “Seven.”
Mark 8:21 And he said to them, “Do you not yet understand?”
Mark 8:22 And they came to Bethsaida. And some people brought to him a blind man and begged him to touch him.
Mark 8:23 And laid his hands on him, he asked him, “Do you see anything?”
Mark 8:24 And he looked up and said, “I see people, but they look like trees, walking.”
Mark 8:25 Then Jesus  laid his hands on his eyes again; and he opened his eyes, his sight was restored, and he saw everything clearly.
Mark 8:26 And he sent him to his home, saying,  “Do not even enter the village.”
Mark 8:27  And Jesus went on with his disciples to the villages of Caesarea Philippi. And on the way he asked his disciples, “Who do people say that I am?”
Mark 8:28 And they told him, Elijah; and others, one of the prophets.”
Mark 8:29 And he asked them, “But who do you say that I am?” Peter answered him, the Christ.”
Mark 8:30  And he strictly charged them to tell no one about him.
Mark 8:31  after three days rise again.
Mark 8:32 And he said this plainly. And Peter took him aside and began to rebuke him.
Mark 8:33 But turning and seeing his disciples, he rebuked Peter and said,  are not setting your mind on the things of God, but on the things of man.”
Mark 8:34 And calling the crowd to him with his disciples, he said to them, “If anyone would come after me, let him take up his cross and follow me.
Mark 8:35 For and the gospel's will save it.
Mark 8:36  For what does it profit a man to gain the whole world and forfeit his soul?
Mark 8:37 For what can a man give in return for his soul?
Mark 8:38 For the holy angels.”
Mark 9:1 And he said to them, “Truly, I say to you, there are some standing here who will not with power.”
Mark 9:2  transfigured before them,
Mark 9:3 and  on earth could bleach them.
Mark 9:4 And there appeared to them Elijah with Moses, and they were talking with Jesus.
Mark 9:5 And Peter said to Jesus, tents, one for you and one for Moses and one for Elijah.”
Mark 9:6 For he did not know what to say, for they were terrified.
Mark 9:7 And listen to him.”
Mark 9:8 And suddenly, looking around, they no longer saw anyone with them but Jesus only.
Mark 9:9  until the Son of Man had risen from the dead.
Mark 9:10  questioning what this rising from the dead might mean.
Mark 9:11 And they asked him, “Why do the scribes say that first Elijah must come?”
Mark 9:12 And he said to them, “Elijah does come first be treated with contempt?
Mark 9:13 But I tell you that Elijah has come, and they did to him whatever they pleased, as it is written of him.”
Mark 9:14  And when they came to the disciples, they saw a great crowd around them, and scribes arguing with them.
Mark 9:15 And immediately all the crowd, when they saw him, were greatly amazed and ran up to him and greeted him.
Mark 9:16 And he asked them, “What are you arguing about with them?”
Mark 9:17 And someone from the crowd answered him, “Teacher, I brought my son to you, for he has a spirit that makes him mute.
Mark 9:18 And whenever it seizes him, it throws him down, and he foams and grinds his teeth and becomes rigid. So I asked your disciples to cast it out, and they were not able.”
Mark 9:19 And he answered them, “O how long am I to be with you? How long am I to bear with you? Bring him to me.”
Mark 9:20 And they brought the boy to him. And when the spirit saw him, immediately it convulsed the boy, and he fell on the ground and rolled about, foaming at the mouth.
Mark 9:21 And Jesus asked his father, “How long has this been happening to him?” And he said, “From childhood.
Mark 9:22 And it has often cast him into fire and into water, to destroy him. But if you can do anything, have compassion on us and help us.”
Mark 9:23 And Jesus said to him,  All things are possible for one who believes.”
Mark 9:24 Immediately the father of the child cried out help my unbelief!”
Mark 9:25 And when Jesus saw that “You mute and deaf spirit, I command you, come out of him and never enter him again.”
Mark 9:26 And after crying out and convulsing him terribly, it came out, and the boy was like a corpse, so that most of them said, “He is dead.”
Mark 9:27 But Jesus took him by the hand and lifted him up, and he arose.
Mark 9:28 And when he had entered the house, his disciples asked him privately, “Why could we not cast it out?”
Mark 9:29 And he said to them, “This kind cannot be driven out by anything but prayer.”
Mark 9:30  They went on from there and passed through Galilee. And he did not want anyone to know,
Mark 9:31 for he was teaching his disciples, saying to them, “The Son of Man is going to be delivered into the hands of men, and they will kill him. And when he is killed, after three days he will rise.”
Mark 9:32  But they did not understand the saying, and were afraid to ask him.
Mark 9:33 And he asked them, “What were you discussing on the way?”
Mark 9:34 But they kept silent, for on the way they had argued with one another about who was the greatest.
Mark 9:35 And he sat down and called the twelve. And he said to them,  “If anyone would be first, he must be last of all and servant of all.”
Mark 9:36 And he took a child and put him in the midst of them, and taking him in his arms, he said to them,
Mark 9:37  whoever receives me, receives not me but him who sent me.”
Mark 9:38  we tried to stop him, because he was not following us.”
Mark 9:39 But Jesus said, “Do not stop him, for no one who does a mighty work in my name will be able soon afterward to speak evil of me.
Mark 9:40  For the one who is not against us is for us.
Mark 9:41 For truly, I say to you, whoever gives you a cup of water to drink because you belong to Christ will by no means lose his reward.
Mark 9:42  it would be better for him if a great millstone were hung around his neck and he were thrown into the sea.
Mark 9:43
Mark 9:44
Mark 9:45  hell.
Mark 9:46
Mark 9:47  hell,
Mark 9:48 ‘where their worm does not die and the fire is not quenched.’
Mark 9:49 For everyone will be salted with fire.
Mark 9:50  be at peace with one another.”
Mark 10:1  to the region of Judea and beyond the Jordan, and crowds gathered to him again. And again, as was his custom, he taught them.
Mark 10:2 And Pharisees came up and in order “Is it lawful for a man to divorce his wife?”
Mark 10:3 He answered them, “What did Moses command you?”
Mark 10:4 They said, “Moses allowed a man to write a certificate of divorce and to send her away.”
Mark 10:5 And Jesus said to them, “Because of your hardness of heart he wrote you this commandment.
Mark 10:6 But male and female.’
Mark 10:7
Mark 10:8 and the two shall become one flesh.’ So they are no longer two but one flesh.
Mark 10:9  What therefore God has joined together, let not man separate.”
Mark 10:10 And in the house the disciples asked him again about this matter.
Mark 10:11 And he said to them,  “Whoever divorces his wife and marries another commits adultery against her,
Mark 10:12 and if she divorces her husband and marries another, she commits adultery.”
Mark 10:13  rebuked them.
Mark 10:14 But when Jesus saw it, he was indignant and said to them,  do not hinder them, for to such belongs the kingdom of God.
Mark 10:15  receive the kingdom of God like a child shall not enter it.”
Mark 10:16 And laying his hands on them.
Mark 10:17  inherit eternal life?”
Mark 10:18 And Jesus said to him, “Why do you call me good? No one is good except God alone.
Mark 10:19 You know the commandments: ‘Do not murder, Do not commit adultery, Do not steal, Do not bear false witness, Do not defraud, Honor your father and mother.’”
Mark 10:20 And he said to him, “Teacher, all these I have kept from my youth.”
Mark 10:21 And Jesus, treasure in heaven; and come, follow me.”
Mark 10:22  Disheartened by the saying, he went away sorrowful, for he had great possessions.
Mark 10:23 And Jesus the kingdom of God!”
Mark 10:24 And the disciples the kingdom of God!
Mark 10:25 It is easier for a camel to go through the eye of a needle than for a rich person to enter the kingdom of God.”
Mark 10:26 And they were exceedingly astonished, and said to him,  “Then who can be saved?”
Mark 10:27 Jesus “With man it is impossible, but not with God. For all things are possible with God.”
Mark 10:28 Peter began to say to him, “See, we have left everything and followed you.”
Mark 10:29 Jesus said, “Truly, I say to you, for the gospel,
Mark 10:30 who will not receive a hundredfold the age to come eternal life.
Mark 10:31 But many who are first will be last, and the last first.”
Mark 10:32  they were amazed, and those who followed were afraid. And taking the twelve again, he began to tell them what was to happen to him,
Mark 10:33 saying, “See, deliver him over to the Gentiles.
Mark 10:34 And they will after three days he will rise.”
Mark 10:35  whatever we ask of you.”
Mark 10:36 And he said to them,  “What do you want me to do for you?”
Mark 10:37 And they said to him, “Grant us in your glory.”
Mark 10:38 Jesus said to them,  to be baptized with the baptism with which I am baptized?”
Mark 10:39 And they said to him, “We are able.” And Jesus said to them,  you will be baptized,
Mark 10:40 but to sit at my right hand or at my left is not mine to grant, prepared.”
Mark 10:41 And when the ten heard it, they began to be indignant at James and John.
Mark 10:42  lord it over them, and their great ones exercise authority over them.
Mark 10:43 But
Mark 10:44 and whoever would be first among you must be  of all.
Mark 10:45 For even the Son of Man came not to be served but many.”
Mark 10:46  a blind beggar, the son of Timaeus, was sitting by the roadside.
Mark 10:47 And when he heard that it was Jesus of Nazareth, he began to cry out and say, “Jesus, Son of David, have mercy on me!”
Mark 10:48 And many rebuked him, telling him to be silent. But he cried out all the more, “Son of David, have mercy on me!”
Mark 10:49 And Jesus stopped and said, “Call him.” And they called the blind man, saying to him, “Take heart. Get up; he is calling you.”
Mark 10:50 And throwing off his cloak, he sprang up and came to Jesus.
Mark 10:51 And Jesus said to him,  “Rabbi, let me recover my sight.”
Mark 10:52 And Jesus said to him, “Go your way; made you well.” And immediately he recovered his sight and followed him on the way.
Mark 11:1  two of his disciples
Mark 11:2 and said to them, “Go into the village in front of you, and immediately as you enter it you will find a colt tied, on which no one has ever sat. Untie it and bring it.
Mark 11:3 If anyone says to you, ‘Why are you doing this?’ say, ‘The Lord has need of it and will send it back here immediately.’”
Mark 11:4 And they went away and found a colt tied at a door outside in the street, and they untied it.
Mark 11:5 And some of those standing there said to them, “What are you doing, untying the colt?”
Mark 11:6 And they told them what Jesus had said, and they let them go.
Mark 11:7 And they brought the colt to Jesus and threw their cloaks on it, and he sat on it.
Mark 11:8 And many spread their cloaks on the road, and others spread leafy branches that they had cut from the fields.
Mark 11:9 And those who went before and those who followed were shouting, Blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord!
Mark 11:10 Blessed is in the highest!”
Mark 11:11  he went out to Bethany with the twelve.
Mark 11:12  he was hungry.
Mark 11:13  it was not the season for figs.
Mark 11:14 And he said to it, “May no one ever eat fruit from you again.” And his disciples heard it.
Mark 11:15  pigeons.
Mark 11:16 And he would not allow anyone to carry anything through the temple.
Mark 11:17 And he was teaching them and saying to them, “Is it not written, you have made it a den of robbers.”
Mark 11:18 And the chief priests and the scribes heard it and all the crowd was astonished at his teaching.
Mark 11:19   went out of the city.
Mark 11:20  As they passed by in the morning, they saw the fig tree withered away to its roots.
Mark 11:21 And Peter remembered and said to him, “Rabbi, look! The fig tree that you cursed has withered.”
Mark 11:22 And Jesus answered them, “Have faith in God.
Mark 11:23  believes that what he says will come to pass, it will be done for him.
Mark 11:24 Therefore I tell you,  it, and it will be yours.
Mark 11:25 And whenever
Mark 11:26
Mark 11:27  And they came again to Jerusalem. And as he was walking in the temple, the chief priests and the scribes and the elders came to him,
Mark 11:28 and they said to him, “By what authority are you doing these things, or who gave you this authority to do them?”
Mark 11:29 Jesus said to them, “I will ask you one question; answer me, and I will tell you by what authority I do these things.
Mark 11:30 Was the baptism of John from heaven or from man? Answer me.”
Mark 11:31 And they discussed it with one another, saying, “If we say, ‘From heaven,’ he will say, ‘Why then did you not believe him?’
Mark 11:32 But shall we say, ‘From man’?” — a prophet.
Mark 11:33 So they answered Jesus, “We do not know.” And Jesus said to them, “Neither will I tell you by what authority I do these things.”
Mark 12:1  went into another country.
Mark 12:2 When the season came, he sent a servant  to the tenants to get from them some of the fruit of the vineyard.
Mark 12:3  And they took him and beat him and sent him away empty-handed.
Mark 12:4  treated him shamefully.
Mark 12:5  And he sent another, and him they killed. And so with many others: some they beat, and some they killed.
Mark 12:6 He had still one other, Finally he sent him to them, saying, ‘They will respect my son.’
Mark 12:7 But those tenants said to one another, let us kill him, and the inheritance will be ours.’
Mark 12:8 And they took him and killed him and threw him out of the vineyard.
Mark 12:9 What will the owner of the vineyard do? give the vineyard to others.
Mark 12:10
Mark 12:11 this was the Lord's doing, and it is marvelous in our eyes’?”
Mark 12:12 And left him and went away.
Mark 12:13  trap him in his talk.
Mark 12:14 And they came and said to him, “Teacher, Caesar, or not? Should we pay them, or should we not?”
Mark 12:15 But, knowing  and let me look at it.”
Mark 12:16 And they brought one. And he said to them, “Whose likeness and inscription is this?” They said to him, “Caesar's.”
Mark 12:17 Jesus said to them,  “Render to Caesar the things that are Caesar's, and to God the things that are God's.” And they marveled at him.
Mark 12:18 And who say that there is no resurrection. And they asked him a question, saying,
Mark 12:19 “Teacher, Moses wrote for us that  must take the widow and raise up offspring for his brother.
Mark 12:20 There were seven brothers; the first took a wife, and when he died left no offspring.
Mark 12:21 And the second took her, and died, leaving no offspring. And the third likewise.
Mark 12:22 And the seven left no offspring. Last of all the woman also died.
Mark 12:23 In the resurrection, when they rise again, whose wife will she be? For the seven had her as wife.”
Mark 12:24 Jesus said to them, “Is this not the reason you are wrong, because the power of God?
Mark 12:25 For when they rise from the dead, they neither are given in marriage, but are like angels in heaven.
Mark 12:26 And as for the dead being raised, ‘I am the God of Abraham, and the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob’?
Mark 12:27 He is not God of the dead, but of the living. You are quite wrong.”
Mark 12:28  And one of the scribes came up and heard them disputing with one another, and seeing that he answered them well, asked him, “Which commandment is the most important of all?”
Mark 12:29 Jesus answered, “The most important is, the Lord is one.
Mark 12:30 And you shall love the Lord your God with all your heart and with all your soul and with all your mind and with all your strength.’
Mark 12:31  greater than these.”
Mark 12:32 And the scribe said to him, “You are right, Teacher. You have truly said that there is no other besides him.
Mark 12:33 And to love him with all the heart and with all whole burnt offerings and sacrifices.”
Mark 12:34 And when Jesus saw that he answered wisely, he said to him, “You are not far from the kingdom of God.” And after that no one dared to ask him any more questions.
Mark 12:35  the Christ is the son of David?
Mark 12:36 David himself, under your feet.”’
Mark 12:37 David himself calls him Lord. So heard him gladly.
Mark 12:38  And in his teaching he said, “Beware of the scribes, who like to walk around in long robes and like greetings in the marketplaces
Mark 12:39 and have the best seats in the synagogues and the places of honor at feasts,
Mark 12:40  for a pretense make long prayers. They will receive the greater condemnation.”
Mark 12:41  putting money into the offering box. Many rich people put in large sums.
Mark 12:42 And a poor widow came and put in two
Mark 12:43 And he called his disciples to him and said to them, “Truly, I say to you, this poor widow has put in more than all those who are contributing to the offering box.
Mark 12:44 For they all contributed out of their abundance, but she out of her she had to live on.”
Mark 13:1  And as he came out of the temple, one of his disciples said to him, “Look, Teacher, what wonderful stones and what wonderful buildings!”
Mark 13:2 And Jesus said to him, “Do you see these great buildings? There will not be left here one stone upon another that will not be thrown down.”
Mark 13:3 And as he sat on privately,
Mark 13:4 “Tell us, when will these things be, and what will be the sign when all these things are about to be accomplished?”
Mark 13:5 And Jesus began to say to them,  “See that no one leads you astray.
Mark 13:6  ‘I am he!’ and they will lead many astray.
Mark 13:7 And when you hear of wars and rumors of wars, must take place, but the end is not yet.
Mark 13:8 For famines. These are but the beginning of the birth pains.
Mark 13:9  to bear witness before them.
Mark 13:10 And the gospel must first be proclaimed to all nations.
Mark 13:11 And when they bring you to trial and deliver you over, for it is not you who speak, but the Holy Spirit.
Mark 13:12  And brother will deliver brother over to death, and the father his child, and children will rise against parents and have them put to death.
Mark 13:13  But the one who endures to the end will be saved.
Mark 13:14 “But when you seelet the reader understand), then let those who are in Judea flee to the mountains.
Mark 13:15  the housetop not go down, nor enter his house, to take anything out,
Mark 13:16 and let the one who is in the field not turn back to take his cloak.
Mark 13:17 And alas for women who are pregnant and for those who are nursing infants in those days!
Mark 13:18 Pray that it may not happen in winter.
Mark 13:19 For in those days there will be God created until now, and never will be.
Mark 13:20 And if the Lord had not cut short the days, no human being would be saved. But for he chose, he shortened the days.
Mark 13:21 And then if anyone says to you, ‘Look, here is the Christ!’ or ‘Look, there he is!’ do not believe it.
Mark 13:22  the elect.
Mark 13:23 But I have told you all things beforehand.
Mark 13:24 “But in those days, after the sun will be darkened, and the moon will not give its light,
Mark 13:25 and the stars will be falling from heaven, and the powers in the heavens will be shaken.
Mark 13:26 And then they will see with great power and glory.
Mark 13:27 And then to the ends of heaven.
Mark 13:28 “From the fig tree learn its lesson: as soon as its branch becomes tender and puts out its leaves, you know that summer is near.
Mark 13:29 So also, when you see these things taking place, you know that he is near, at the very gates.
Mark 13:30  Truly, I say to you, this generation will not pass away until all these things take place.
Mark 13:31  my words will not pass away.
Mark 13:32 “But concerning that day or that hour, but only the Father.
Mark 13:33   For you do not know when the time will come.
Mark 13:34  the doorkeeper to stay awake.
Mark 13:35  in the morning —
Mark 13:36 lest find you asleep.
Mark 13:37 And what I say to you I say to all: Stay awake.”
Mark 14:1  were seeking how to arrest him by stealth and kill him,
Mark 14:2 for they said, “Not during the feast, lest there be an uproar from the people.”
Mark 14:3   as he was reclining at table, a woman came with an alabaster flask of ointment of pure nard, very costly, and she broke the flask and poured it over his head.
Mark 14:4 There were some who said to themselves indignantly, “Why was the ointment wasted like that?
Mark 14:5 For this ointment could have been sold for more than three hundred denarii scolded her.
Mark 14:6 But Jesus said, “Leave her alone. Why do you trouble her? She has done a beautiful thing to me.
Mark 14:7 For you will not always have me.
Mark 14:8  for burial.
Mark 14:9 And truly, I say to you, wherever in memory of her.”
Mark 14:10  went to the chief priests in order to betray him to them.
Mark 14:11 And when they heard it, they were glad and promised to give him money. And he sought an opportunity to betray him.
Mark 14:12  sacrificed the Passover lamb, his disciples said to him, “Where will you have us go and prepare for you to eat the Passover?”
Mark 14:13 And he sent two of his disciples and said to them, “Go into the city, and a man carrying a jar of water will meet you. Follow him,
Mark 14:14 and wherever he enters, say to the master of the house, my guest room, where I may eat the Passover with my disciples?’
Mark 14:15 And he will show you a large upper room furnished and ready; there prepare for us.”
Mark 14:16 And the disciples set out and went to the city and found it just as he had told them, and they prepared the Passover.
Mark 14:17  And when it was evening, he came with the twelve.
Mark 14:18 And as they were reclining at table and eating, one who is eating with me.”
Mark 14:19 They began to be sorrowful and to say to him one after another, “Is it I?”
Mark 14:20 He said to them, “It is one who is dipping bread into the dish with me.
Mark 14:21 For the Son of Man goes It would have been better for that man if he had not been born.”
Mark 14:22  this is my body.”
Mark 14:23 And he took a cup, and when he had given thanks he gave it to them, and they all drank of it.
Mark 14:24 And he said to them,  many.
Mark 14:25 Truly, I say to you, I will not drink again of the fruit of the vine until that day when I drink it new in the kingdom of God.”
Mark 14:26  the Mount of Olives.
Mark 14:27 And Jesus said to them, “You will all fall away, for it is written, ‘I will strike the shepherd, and the sheep will be scattered.’
Mark 14:28 But after I am raised up, I will go before you to Galilee.”
Mark 14:29  Peter said to him, “Even though they all fall away, I will not.”
Mark 14:30 And the rooster crows twice, you will deny me three times.”
Mark 14:31 But he said emphatically, “If I must die with you, I will not deny you.” And they all said the same.
Mark 14:32  to a place called Gethsemane. And he said to his disciples, “Sit here while I pray.”
Mark 14:33 And he took with him to be greatly distressed and troubled.
Mark 14:34 And he said to them,
Mark 14:35 And going a little farther, he fell on the ground the hour might pass from him.
Mark 14:36 And he said,  Yet not what I will, but what you will.”
Mark 14:37 And he came and found them sleeping, and he said to Peter, “Simon, are you asleep? Could you not watch one hour?
Mark 14:38  enter into temptation. The spirit indeed is willing, but the flesh is weak.”
Mark 14:39 And again he went away and prayed, saying the same words.
Mark 14:40 And again he came and found them sleeping, for they did not know what to answer him.
Mark 14:41 And he came the third time and said to them, “Are you still sleeping and taking your rest? The Son of Man is betrayed into the hands of sinners.
Mark 14:42 Rise, let us be going; see, my betrayer is at hand.”
Mark 14:43  Judas came, one of the twelve, and with him a crowd with swords and clubs, from the chief priests and the scribes and the elders.
Mark 14:44 Now the betrayer had given them a sign, saying, “The one I will kiss is the man. Seize him and lead him away under guard.”
Mark 14:45 And when he came, he went up to him at once and said, kissed him.
Mark 14:46 And they laid hands on him and seized him.
Mark 14:47 But one of those who stood by drew his  of the high priest and cut off his ear.
Mark 14:48 And Jesus said to them, “Have you come out as against a robber, with swords and clubs to capture me?
Mark 14:49  let the Scriptures be fulfilled.”
Mark 14:50  And they all left him and fled.
Mark 14:51 And a young man followed him, with nothing but a linen cloth about his body. And they seized him,
Mark 14:52 but he left the linen cloth and ran away naked.
Mark 14:53  they led Jesus to the high priest. And all the chief priests and the elders and the scribes came together.
Mark 14:54  warming himself at the fire.
Mark 14:55 Now the chief priests and the whole council  were seeking testimony against Jesus to put him to death, but they found none.
Mark 14:56  did not agree.
Mark 14:57 And some stood up and bore false witness against him, saying,
Mark 14:58  not made with hands.’”
Mark 14:59 Yet even about this their testimony did not agree.
Mark 14:60 And the high priest stood up in the midst and asked Jesus, “Have you no answer to make? What is it that these men testify against you?”
Mark 14:61 But the Blessed?”
Mark 14:62 And Jesus said, “I am, and coming with the clouds of heaven.”
Mark 14:63 And the high priest tore his garments and said, “What further witnesses do we need?
Mark 14:64 You have heard deserving death.
Mark 14:65  with blows.
Mark 14:66  And as Peter was below in the courtyard, one of the servant girls of the high priest came,
Mark 14:67 and seeing Peter warming himself, she looked at him and said, “You also were with the Nazarene, Jesus.”
Mark 14:68 But he denied it, saying, “I neither know nor understand what you mean.” And he went out into the gateway
Mark 14:69 And the servant girl saw him and began again to say to the bystanders, “This man is one of them.”
Mark 14:70 But again he denied it. And after a little while the bystanders again said to Peter, “Certainly you are one of them, for you are a Galilean.”
Mark 14:71 But he began to invoke a curse on himself and to swear, “I do not know this man of whom you speak.”
Mark 14:72 And immediately the rooster crowed
Mark 15:1  Pilate.
Mark 15:2  “You have said so.”
Mark 15:3 And the chief priests accused him of many things.
Mark 15:4 And Pilate again asked him, “Have you no answer to make? See how many charges they bring against you.”
Mark 15:5 But Jesus made no further answer, so that Pilate was amazed.
Mark 15:6  Now at the feast he used to release for them one prisoner for whom they asked.
Mark 15:7 And among the rebels in prison, who had in the insurrection, there was a man called Barabbas.
Mark 15:8 And the crowd came up and began to ask Pilate to do as he usually did for them.
Mark 15:9 And he answered them, saying, “Do you want me to release for you the King of the Jews?”
Mark 15:10 For he perceived that it was out of envy that the chief priests had delivered him up.
Mark 15:11 But the chief priests stirred up the crowd to have him release for them Barabbas instead.
Mark 15:12 And Pilate again said to them, “Then what shall I do with the man you call the King of the Jews?”
Mark 15:13 And they cried out again, “Crucify him.”
Mark 15:14 And Pilate said to them, “Why? What evil has he done?” But they shouted all the more, “Crucify him.”
Mark 15:15 So Pilate, wishing to satisfy the crowd, released for them Barabbas, and having  Jesus, he delivered him to be crucified.
Mark 15:16
Mark 15:17 And they clothed him in a purple cloak, and twisting together a crown of thorns, they put it on him.
Mark 15:18 And they began to salute him, “Hail, King of the Jews!”
Mark 15:19 And they were striking his head with a reed and kneeling down in homage to him.
Mark 15:20 And when they had led him out to crucify him.
Mark 15:21  And they compelled a passerby, Simon of Cyrene, who was coming in from the country, the father of Alexander and Rufus, to carry his cross.
Mark 15:22  And they brought him to the place called Golgotha (which means Place of a Skull).
Mark 15:23 And they offered him wine mixed with myrrh, but he did not take it.
Mark 15:24 And they crucified him and divided his garments among them, casting lots for them, to decide what each should take.
Mark 15:25 And  when they crucified him.
Mark 15:26 And the inscription of the charge against him read, “The King of the Jews.”
Mark 15:27 And with him they crucified two
Mark 15:28
Mark 15:29 And You who would destroy the temple and rebuild it in three days,
Mark 15:30 save yourself, and come down from the cross!”
Mark 15:31 So also the chief priests with the scribes mocked him to one another, saying, he cannot save himself.
Mark 15:32 Let Those who were crucified with him also reviled him.
Mark 15:33 And when the sixth hour
Mark 15:34 And at the ninth hour Jesus “Eloi, Eloi, lema sabachthani?” which means, “My God, my God, why have you forsaken me?”
Mark 15:35 And some of the bystanders hearing it said, “Behold, he is calling Elijah.”
Mark 15:36 And someone ran and filled a sponge with and gave it to him to drink, saying, “Wait, let us see whether Elijah will come to take him down.”
Mark 15:37 And Jesus breathed his last.
Mark 15:38 And the curtain of the temple was torn in two, from top to bottom.
Mark 15:39   of God!”
Mark 15:40 There were also Salome.
Mark 15:41 When he was in Galilee, they followed him and came up with him to Jerusalem.
Mark 15:42  the day of Preparation, that is, the day before the Sabbath,
Mark 15:43 Joseph of Arimathea, was also himself looking for the kingdom of God, took courage and went to Pilate and asked for the body of Jesus.
Mark 15:44 Pilate was surprised to hear that he should have already died. the centurion, he asked him whether he was already dead.
Mark 15:45 And when he learned from the centurion that he was dead, he granted the corpse to Joseph.
Mark 15:46 And Joseph a stone against the entrance of the tomb.
Mark 15:47  Mary Magdalene and Mary the mother of Joses saw where he was laid.
Mark 16:1  bought spices, so that they might go and anoint him.
Mark 16:2 And very early on the first day of the week, when the sun had risen, they went to the tomb.
Mark 16:3 And they were saying to one another, “Who will roll away the stone for us from the entrance of the tomb?”
Mark 16:4 And looking up, they saw that the stone had been rolled back — it was very large.
Mark 16:5 And they were alarmed.
Mark 16:6 And he said to them, “Do not be alarmed. You seek Jesus of Nazareth, who was crucified. He has risen; he is not here. See the place where they laid him.
Mark 16:7 But go, tell his disciples and Peter that just as he told you.”
Mark 16:8 And they went out and fled from the tomb, for trembling and astonishment had seized them, and they said nothing to anyone, for they were afraid.
Mark 16:9   from whom he had cast out seven demons.
Mark 16:10  mourned and wept.
Mark 16:11 But when they heard that he was alive and had been seen by her, they would not believe it.
Mark 16:12  another form to two of them, as they were walking into the country.
Mark 16:13  And they went back and told the rest, but they did not believe them.
Mark 16:14 Afterward they had not believed those who saw him after he had risen.
Mark 16:15 And he said to them,  the whole creation.
Mark 16:16  does not believe will be condemned.
Mark 16:17 And they will speak in new tongues;
Mark 16:18  on the sick, and they will recover.”
Mark 16:19 So then the Lord Jesus, sat down at the right hand of God.
Mark 16:20 And they went out and preached everywhere, while by accompanying signs.]]
Luke 1:1 Inasmuch as many have undertaken to compile a narrative of the things that have been accomplished among us,
Luke 1:2  have delivered them to us,
Luke 1:3 it seemed good to me also, having followed all things closely for some time past, to write Theophilus,
Luke 1:4 that you may have you have been taught.
Luke 1:5  the division of Abijah. And he had a wife from the daughters of Aaron, and her name was Elizabeth.
Luke 1:6 And they were both blamelessly in all the commandments and statutes of the Lord.
Luke 1:7 But they had no child, because both were advanced in years.
Luke 1:8 Now his division was on duty,
Luke 1:9 according to the custom of the priesthood, he was chosen by lot the temple of the Lord and burn incense.
Luke 1:10 And the whole multitude of the people outside at the hour of incense.
Luke 1:11 And there appeared to him an angel of the Lord standing on the right side of the altar of incense.
Luke 1:12 And Zechariah was troubled when he saw him, and fear fell upon him.
Luke 1:13 But the angel said to him, “Do not be afraid, Zechariah, for you shall call his name John.
Luke 1:14 And you will have joy and gladness, and many will rejoice at his birth,
Luke 1:15 for he will be even from his mother's womb.
Luke 1:16 And he will turn many of the children of Israel to the Lord their God,
Luke 1:17 and to make ready for the Lord a people prepared.”
Luke 1:18 And Zechariah said to the angel, “How shall I know this? For I am an old man, and my wife is advanced in years.”
Luke 1:19 And the angel answered him, “I am I stand in the presence of God, and I was sent to speak to you and to bring you this good news.
Luke 1:20 And behold, you will be silent and unable to speak until the day that these things take place, because you did not believe my words, which will be fulfilled in their time.”
Luke 1:21 And the people were waiting for Zechariah, and they were wondering at his delay in the temple.
Luke 1:22 And when he came out, he was unable to speak to them, and they realized that he had seen a vision in he kept making signs to them and remained mute.
Luke 1:23 And service was ended, he went to his home.
Luke 1:24 After these days his wife Elizabeth conceived, and for five months she kept herself hidden, saying,
Luke 1:25 “Thus the Lord has done for me in the days when he looked on me, to take away my reproach among people.”
Luke 1:26 In the sixth month the angel Nazareth,
Luke 1:27  of the house of David. And the virgin's name was Mary.
Luke 1:28 And he came to her and said, “Greetings,
Luke 1:29 But she was greatly troubled at the saying, and tried to discern what sort of greeting this might be.
Luke 1:30 And the angel said to her, “Do not be afraid, Mary, for you have found favor with God.
Luke 1:31 And behold, you shall call his name Jesus.
Luke 1:32 He will be great and will be called the Son of his father David,
Luke 1:33 and he will reign over the house of Jacob forever, and of his kingdom there will be no end.”
Luke 1:34 And Mary said to the angel, “How will this be, since I am a virgin?”
Luke 1:35 And the angel answered her, the Son of God.
Luke 1:36 And behold, your relative Elizabeth in her old age has also conceived a son, and this is the sixth month with her who was called barren.
Luke 1:37 For nothing will be impossible with God.”
Luke 1:38 And Mary said, “Behold, I am the servant the angel departed from her.
Luke 1:39 In those days Mary arose and went with haste into the hill country, to a town in Judah,
Luke 1:40 and she entered the house of Zechariah and greeted Elizabeth.
Luke 1:41 And when Elizabeth heard the greeting of Mary, the baby leaped in her womb. And Elizabeth was filled with the Holy Spirit,
Luke 1:42 and she exclaimed with a loud cry, the fruit of your womb!
Luke 1:43 And why is this granted to me that the mother of my Lord should come to me?
Luke 1:44 For behold, when the sound of your greeting came to my ears, the baby in my womb leaped for joy.
Luke 1:45 And  a fulfillment of what was spoken to her from the Lord.”
Luke 1:46 And Mary said,  magnifies the Lord,
Luke 1:47  God my Savior,
Luke 1:48 for will call me blessed;
Luke 1:49 for holy is his name.
Luke 1:50 And his mercy is for those who fear him from generation to generation.
Luke 1:51 he has scattered the proud in the thoughts of their hearts;
Luke 1:52 and exalted those of humble estate;
Luke 1:53 he has filled he has sent away empty.
Luke 1:54 He hasin remembrance of his mercy,
Luke 1:55 to Abraham and to his offspring forever.”
Luke 1:56 And Mary remained with her about three months and returned to her home.
Luke 1:57 Now the time came for Elizabeth to give birth, and she bore a son.
Luke 1:58 And her neighbors and relatives heard that the Lord had shown great mercy to her, and they rejoiced with her.
Luke 1:59 And on the eighth day they came to circumcise the child. And they would have called him Zechariah after his father,
Luke 1:60 but his mother answered, “No; he shall be called John.”
Luke 1:61 And they said to her, “None of your relatives is called by this name.”
Luke 1:62 And they made signs to his father, inquiring what he wanted him to be called.
Luke 1:63 And he asked for “His name is John.” And they all wondered.
Luke 1:64  blessing God.
Luke 1:65 And the hill country of Judea,
Luke 1:66 and all who heard them the hand of the Lord was with him.
Luke 1:67 And his father Zechariah prophesied, saying,
Luke 1:68  redeemed his people
Luke 1:69 andin the house of his servant David,
Luke 1:70  he spoke by the mouth of his holy prophets from of old,
Luke 1:71  that we should be saved from our enemies and from the hand of all who hate us;
Luke 1:72  covenant,
Luke 1:73  the oath that he swore to our father Abraham, to grant us
Luke 1:74 that we, being delivered from the hand of our enemies, might serve him without fear,
Luke 1:75  all our days.
Luke 1:76 And you, child, will be called you will go before the Lord to prepare his ways,
Luke 1:77 to give knowledge of salvation to his people in the forgiveness of their sins,
Luke 1:78 because of the from on high
Luke 1:79 to peace.”
Luke 1:80  in the wilderness until the day of his public appearance to Israel.
Luke 2:1 In those days registered.
Luke 2:2 This was the first was governor of Syria.
Luke 2:3 And all went to be registered, each to his own town.
Luke 2:4 And Joseph also went up because he was of the house and lineage of David,
Luke 2:5 to be registered with Mary, his betrothed,  who was with child.
Luke 2:6 And while they were there, the time came for her to give birth.
Luke 2:7 And she gave birth to her firstborn son and
Luke 2:8 And in the same region there were shepherds out in the field, keeping watch over their flock by night.
Luke 2:9 And an angel of the Lord the glory of the Lord shone around them, and they were filled with great fear.
Luke 2:10 And the angel said to them, “Fear not, for behold, I bring you good news of great joy that will be for all the people.
Luke 2:11 For the Lord.
Luke 2:12 And wrapped in swaddling cloths and lying in a manger.”
Luke 2:13 And suddenly there was with the angel a multitude of the heavenly host praising God and saying,
Luke 2:14
Luke 2:15 When the angels went away from them into heaven, the shepherds said to one another, “Let us go over to Bethlehem and see this thing that has happened, which the Lord has made known to us.”
Luke 2:16 And they went with haste and found Mary and Joseph, and the baby lying in a manger.
Luke 2:17 And when they saw it, they made known the saying that had been told them concerning this child.
Luke 2:18 And all who heard it wondered at what the shepherds told them.
Luke 2:19 But Mary treasured up all these things, pondering them in her heart.
Luke 2:20 And the shepherds returned, glorifying and praising God for all they had heard and seen, as it had been told them.
Luke 2:21 And he was called Jesus, the name given by the angel before he was conceived in the womb.
Luke 2:22 And to present him to the Lord
Luke 2:23 (as it is written in “Every male who first opens the womb shall be called holy to the Lord”)
Luke 2:24 and to offer a sacrifice according to what is said in “a pair of turtledoves, or two young pigeons.”
Luke 2:25 Now there was a man in Jerusalem, whose name was Simeon, and this man was the consolation of Israel, and the Holy Spirit was upon him.
Luke 2:26 And it had been revealed to him by the Holy Spirit that he would not the Lord's Christ.
Luke 2:27 And he came in the Spirit into the temple, and when the parents brought in the child Jesus, to do for him according to the custom of the Law,
Luke 2:28 he took him up in his arms and blessed God and said,
Luke 2:29 “Lord, now you are letting your servantaccording to your word;
Luke 2:30 for salvation
Luke 2:31  that you have prepared in the presence of all peoples,
Luke 2:32  your people Israel.”
Luke 2:33 And his father and his mother marveled at what was said about him.
Luke 2:34 And Simeon blessed them and said to Mary his mother, “Behold, this child is appointed that is opposed
Luke 2:35 (and a sword will pierce through your own soul also), so that thoughts from many hearts may be revealed.”
Luke 2:36 And there was a prophetess, Anna, the daughter of Phanuel, of the tribe of Asher. She was advanced in years, having lived with her husband seven years from when she was a virgin,
Luke 2:37 and then as a widow until she was eighty-four. fasting and prayer night and day.
Luke 2:38 And coming up at that very hour she began to give thanks to God and to speak of him to all who were waiting for the redemption of Jerusalem.
Luke 2:39 And when they had performed everything according to Nazareth.
Luke 2:40  And the child grew and became strong, filled with wisdom. And the favor of God was upon him.
Luke 2:41 Now the Feast of the Passover.
Luke 2:42 And when he was twelve years old, they went up according to custom.
Luke 2:43 And when the feast His parents did not know it,
Luke 2:44 but supposing him to be in the group they went a day's journey, but then they began to search for him among their relatives and acquaintances,
Luke 2:45 and when they did not find him, they returned to Jerusalem, searching for him.
Luke 2:46 After three days they found him in the temple, the teachers, listening to them and asking them questions.
Luke 2:47 And all who heard him were amazed at his understanding and his answers.
Luke 2:48 And when his parents your father and I have been searching for you in great distress.”
Luke 2:49 And he said to them, “Why were you looking for me? Did you not know that
Luke 2:50 And they did not understand the saying that he spoke to them.
Luke 2:51 And he went down with them and came to Nazareth and was submissive to them. And his mother treasured up all these things in her heart.
Luke 2:52 And Jesus favor with God and man.
Luke 3:1 In the fifteenth year of the reign of Herod being tetrarch of Galilee, and his brother Philip tetrarch of the region of Ituraea and Trachonitis, and Lysanias tetrarch of Abilene,
Luke 3:2 during the wilderness.
Luke 3:3 And he went into all the region around the Jordan, proclaiming for the forgiveness of sins.
Luke 3:4 As it is written in  make his paths straight.
Luke 3:5 and the crooked shall become straight, and the rough places shall become level ways,
Luke 3:6  the salvation of God.’”
Luke 3:7 He said therefore to the crowds that came out to be baptized by him, the wrath to come?
Luke 3:8 Bear fruits these stones to raise up children for Abraham.
Luke 3:9 Even now the axe is laid to the root of the trees. Every tree therefore that does not bear good fruit is cut down and thrown into the fire.”
Luke 3:10 And the crowds asked him, “What then shall we do?”
Luke 3:11 And he answered them,  is to share with him who has none, and whoever has food is to do likewise.”
Luke 3:12  what shall we do?”
Luke 3:13 And he said to them, “Collect no more than you are authorized to do.”
Luke 3:14 Soldiers also asked him, “And we, wages.”
Luke 3:15 As the people were in expectation, and all were questioning in their hearts concerning John, the Christ,
Luke 3:16  fire.
Luke 3:17 His unquenchable fire.”
Luke 3:18 So with many other exhortations he preached good news to the people.
Luke 3:19 But Herod the tetrarch, who had been reproved by him for Herodias, his brother's wife, and for all the evil things that Herod had done,
Luke 3:20 added this to them all, that he locked up John in prison.
Luke 3:21 Now when all the people were baptized, and when the heavens were opened,
Luke 3:22 and
Luke 3:23 Jesus, the son (as was supposed) of Joseph, the son of Heli,
Luke 3:24 the son of Matthat, the son of Levi, the son of Melchi, the son of Jannai, the son of Joseph,
Luke 3:25 the son of Mattathias, the son of Amos, the son of Nahum, the son of Esli, the son of Naggai,
Luke 3:26 the son of Maath, the son of Mattathias, the son of Semein, the son of Josech, the son of Joda,
Luke 3:27 the son of Joanan, the son of Rhesa,  the son of Neri,
Luke 3:28 the son of Melchi, the son of Addi, the son of Cosam, the son of Elmadam, the son of Er,
Luke 3:29 the son of Joshua, the son of Eliezer, the son of Jorim, the son of Matthat, the son of Levi,
Luke 3:30 the son of Simeon, the son of Judah, the son of Joseph, the son of Jonam, the son of Eliakim,
Luke 3:31 the son of Melea, the son of Menna, the son of Mattatha, the son of Nathan, the son of David,
Luke 3:32  the son of Jesse, the son of Obed, the son of Boaz, the son of Sala, the son of Nahshon,
Luke 3:33 the son of Amminadab, the son of Admin, the son of Arni, the son of Hezron, the son of Perez, the son of Judah,
Luke 3:34  the son of Terah, the son of Nahor,
Luke 3:35 the son of Serug, the son of Reu, the son of Peleg, the son of Eber, the son of Shelah,
Luke 3:36 the son of Cainan, the son of Arphaxad, the son of Shem, the son of Noah, the son of Lamech,
Luke 3:37 the son of Methuselah, the son of Enoch, the son of Jared, the son of Mahalaleel, the son of Cainan,
Luke 3:38 the son of Enos, the son of Seth, the son of Adam, the son of God.
Luke 4:1  by the Spirit in the wilderness
Luke 4:2 for he was hungry.
Luke 4:3 The devil said to him, “If you are this stone to become bread.”
Luke 4:4 And Jesus answered him,  ‘Man shall not live by bread alone.’”
Luke 4:5  And the devil took him up and showed him all the kingdoms of the world in a moment of time,
Luke 4:6 and said to him, “To you for it has been delivered to me, and I give it to whom I will.
Luke 4:7 If you, then, will worship me, it will all be yours.”
Luke 4:8 And Jesus answered him,  him only shall you serve.’”
Luke 4:9  the Son of God, throw yourself down from here,
Luke 4:10 for it is written, “‘He will command his angels concerning you, to guard you,’
Luke 4:11 and “‘On their hands they will bear you up, lest you strike your foot against a stone.’”
Luke 4:12 And Jesus answered him, “It is said, put the Lord your God to the test.’”
Luke 4:13 And when the devil had ended every temptation, he departed from him until an opportune time.
Luke 4:14  a report about him went out through all the surrounding country.
Luke 4:15 And he taught in their synagogues, being glorified by all.
Luke 4:16  to read.
Luke 4:17 And the scroll of the prophet Isaiah was given to him. He unrolled the scroll and found the place where it was written,
Luke 4:18  to set at liberty those who are oppressed,
Luke 4:19  to proclaim the year of the Lord's favor.”
Luke 4:20 And he rolled up the scroll and gave it back to the attendant and fixed on him.
Luke 4:21 And he began to say to them, “Today has been fulfilled in your hearing.”
Luke 4:22 And all spoke well of him and marveled at Joseph's son?”
Luke 4:23 And he said to them, “Doubtless you will quote to me this proverb, at Capernaum, do here in your hometown as well.’”
Luke 4:24 And he said, “Truly, I say to you, no prophet is acceptable in his hometown.
Luke 4:25 But in truth, I tell you, there were many widows in Israel in the days of Elijah, when the heavens were shut up three years and six months, and a great famine came over all the land,
Luke 4:26 and Elijah was sent to none of them but only to Zarephath, in the land of Sidon, to a woman who was a widow.
Luke 4:27 And but only Naaman the Syrian.”
Luke 4:28 When they heard these things, all in the synagogue were filled with wrath.
Luke 4:29 And they rose up and drove him out of the town and brought him to the brow of the hill on which their town was built, so that they could throw him down the cliff.
Luke 4:30 But passing through their midst, he went away.
Luke 4:31  on the Sabbath,
Luke 4:32 and for his word possessed authority.
Luke 4:33 And in the synagogue there was a man who had the spirit of an unclean demon, and he cried out with a loud voice,
Luke 4:34 “Ha! the Holy One of God.”
Luke 4:35 But Jesus rebuked him, saying, “Be silent and come out of him!” And when the demon had thrown him down in their midst, he came out of him, having done him no harm.
Luke 4:36 And For with authority and power he commands the unclean spirits, and they come out!”
Luke 4:37 And reports about him went out into every place in the surrounding region.
Luke 4:38  Simon's mother-in-law was ill with a high fever, and they appealed to him on her behalf.
Luke 4:39 And he stood over her and rebuked the fever, and it left her, and immediately she rose and began to serve them.
Luke 4:40 Now when the sun was setting, all those who had any who were sick with various diseases brought them to him, and he laid his hands on every one of them and healed them.
Luke 4:41  the Christ.
Luke 4:42  the people sought him and came to him, and would have kept him from leaving them,
Luke 4:43 but he said to them,  preach the good news of the kingdom of God to the other towns as well; for I was sent for this purpose.”
Luke 4:44 And he was preaching
Luke 5:1 On one occasion, while the crowd was pressing in on him to hear the word of God, he was standing by the lake of Gennesaret,
Luke 5:2  washing their nets.
Luke 5:3 Getting into one of the boats, which was Simon's, he asked him to put out a little from the land. And he sat down and taught the people from the boat.
Luke 5:4 And when he had finished speaking, he said to Simon,  “Put out into the deep and let down your nets for a catch.”
Luke 5:5 And Simon answered, “Master, we toiled all night and took nothing! But at your word I will let down the nets.”
Luke 5:6 And when they had done this, their nets were breaking.
Luke 5:7 They signaled to their partners in the other boat to come and help them. And they came and filled both the boats, so that they began to sink.
Luke 5:8 But when Simon Peter saw it, he fell down at Jesus' knees, saying, I am a sinful man, O Lord.”
Luke 5:9 For he and all who were with him were astonished at the catch of fish that they had taken,
Luke 5:10 and so also were James and John, sons of Zebedee, who were partners with Simon. And Jesus said to Simon, “Do not be afraid; from now on you will be catching men.”
Luke 5:11 And when they had brought their boats to land, they left everything and followed him.
Luke 5:12 While he was in one of the cities, if you will, you can make me clean.”
Luke 5:13 And Jesus  stretched out his hand and touched him, saying, “I will; be clean.” And immediately the leprosy left him.
Luke 5:14 And he charged him for a proof to them.”
Luke 5:15  But now even more the report about him went abroad, and great crowds gathered to hear him and to be healed of their infirmities.
Luke 5:16 But pray.
Luke 5:17 On one of those days, as he was teaching, Pharisees and
Luke 5:18  on a bed a man who was paralyzed, and they were seeking to bring him in and lay him before Jesus,
Luke 5:19 but finding no way to bring him in, because of the crowd, they went up on through the tiles into the midst before Jesus.
Luke 5:20 And your sins are forgiven you.”
Luke 5:21 And the scribes and the Pharisees began to question, saying, “Who is this who speaks Who can forgive sins but God alone?”
Luke 5:22 When Jesus perceived their thoughts, he answered them, “Why do you question in your hearts?
Luke 5:23 Which is easier, to say, ‘Your sins are forgiven you,’ or to say, ‘Rise and walk’?
Luke 5:24 But that you may know that the Son of Man has authority on earth to forgive sins” — he said to the man who was paralyzed — “I say to you, rise, pick up your bed and go home.”
Luke 5:25 And immediately he rose up before them and picked up what he had been lying on and went home, glorifying God.
Luke 5:26 And amazement seized them all, and they with awe, saying, “We have seen extraordinary things today.”
Luke 5:27  Levi, sitting at the tax booth. And he said to him, “Follow me.”
Luke 5:28 And leaving everything, he rose and followed him.
Luke 5:29 And Levi made him a great feast in his house, and there was a large company of tax collectors and others reclining at table with them.
Luke 5:30 And the Pharisees and “Why do you eat and drink with tax collectors and sinners?”
Luke 5:31 And Jesus answered them, “Those who are well have no need of a physician, but those who are sick.
Luke 5:32  to repentance.”
Luke 5:33 And they said to him, and so do the disciples of the Pharisees, but yours eat and drink.”
Luke 5:34 And Jesus said to them,  “Can you make wedding guests fast while the bridegroom is with them?
Luke 5:35  then they will fast in those days.”
Luke 5:36 He also told them a parable: “No one tears a piece from a new garment and puts it on an old garment. If he does, he will tear the new, and the piece from the new will not match the old.
Luke 5:37 And no one puts new wine into old wineskins. If he does, the new wine will burst the skins and it will be spilled, and the skins will be destroyed.
Luke 5:38 But new wine must be put into fresh wineskins.
Luke 5:39 And no one after drinking old wine desires new, for he says, ‘The old is good.’”
Luke 6:1  plucked and ate some heads of grain, rubbing them in their hands.
Luke 6:2 But some of the Pharisees said, what is not lawful to do on the Sabbath?”
Luke 6:3 And Jesus answered them,  what David did when he was hungry, he and those who were with him:
Luke 6:4 how he entered the house of God and took and ate which is not lawful for any but the priests to eat, and also gave it to those with him?”
Luke 6:5 And he said to them,  “The Son of Man is lord of the Sabbath.”
Luke 6:6 On another Sabbath, and was teaching, and a man was there whose right hand was withered.
Luke 6:7 And the scribes and the Pharisees so that they might find a reason to accuse him.
Luke 6:8 But he knew their thoughts, and he said to the man with the withered hand, “Come and stand here.” And he rose and stood there.
Luke 6:9 And Jesus said to them, “I ask you, is it lawful on the Sabbath to do good or to do harm, to save life or to destroy it?”
Luke 6:10 And he did so, and his hand was restored.
Luke 6:11 But they were filled with fury and discussed with one another what they might do to Jesus.
Luke 6:12 In these days he went out to the mountain to pray, and all night he continued in prayer to God.
Luke 6:13 And when day came, apostles:
Luke 6:14 Simon, James and John, and Philip, and Bartholomew,
Luke 6:15 and the Zealot,
Luke 6:16 and Judas the son of James, and Judas Iscariot, who became a traitor.
Luke 6:17 And Tyre and Sidon,
Luke 6:18 who came to hear him and to be healed of their diseases. And those who were troubled with unclean spirits were cured.
Luke 6:19 And all the crowd power came out from him and healed them all.
Luke 6:20 And yours is the kingdom of God.
Luke 6:21  “Blessed are you who weep now, for you shall laugh.
Luke 6:22 “Blessed are you when on account of the Son of Man!
Luke 6:23  so their fathers did to the prophets.
Luke 6:24  have received your consolation.
Luke 6:25 “Woe to you who are full now, for for you shall mourn and weep.
Luke 6:26 “Woe to you, the false prophets.
Luke 6:27 “But I say to you who hear, do good to those who hate you,
Luke 6:28  pray for those who abuse you.
Luke 6:29   either.
Luke 6:30  Give to everyone who begs from you, and from one who takes away your goods do not demand them back.
Luke 6:31 And as you wish that others would do to you, do so to them.
Luke 6:32  “If you love those who love you, what benefit is that to you? For even sinners love those who love them.
Luke 6:33 And if you do good to those who do good to you, what benefit is that to you? For even sinners do the same.
Luke 6:34 And lend to those from whom you expect to receive, what credit is that to you? Even sinners lend to sinners, to get back the same amount.
Luke 6:35 But he is kind to the ungrateful and the evil.
Luke 6:36  your Father is merciful.
Luke 6:37  forgive, and you will be forgiven;
Luke 6:38  with the measure you use it will be measured back to you.”
Luke 6:39 He also told them a parable:  “Can a blind man lead a blind man? Will they not both fall into a pit?
Luke 6:40  fully trained will be like his teacher.
Luke 6:41  do not notice the log that is in your own eye?
Luke 6:42 How can you say to your brother, ‘Brother, let me take out the speck that is in your eye,’ when you yourself do not see the log that is in your own eye? You hypocrite, first take the log out of your own eye, and then you will see clearly to take out the speck that is in your brother's eye.
Luke 6:43 “For no good tree bears bad fruit, nor again does a bad tree bear good fruit,
Luke 6:44 for each tree is known by its own fruit. For figs are not gathered from thornbushes, nor are grapes picked from a bramble bush.
Luke 6:45  for out of the abundance of the heart his mouth speaks.
Luke 6:46  do you call me ‘Lord, Lord,’ and not do what I tell you?
Luke 6:47  Everyone who comes to me and hears my words and does them, I will show you what he is like:
Luke 6:48 he is like a man building a house, who dug deep and laid the foundation on the rock. And when a flood arose, the stream broke against that house and could not shake it, because it had been well built.
Luke 6:49  the ruin of that house was great.”
Luke 7:1 After he had finished all his sayings in the hearing of the people, he entered Capernaum.
Luke 7:2 Now a centurion had a servant  who was sick and at the point of death, who was highly valued by him.
Luke 7:3 When the centurion he sent to him elders of the Jews, asking him to come and heal his servant.
Luke 7:4 And when they came to Jesus, they pleaded with him earnestly, saying, “He is worthy to have you do this for him,
Luke 7:5 for he loves our nation, and he is the one who built us our synagogue.”
Luke 7:6 And Jesus went with them. When he was not far from the house, the centurion sent friends, saying to him, “Lord, do not trouble yourself, for I am not worthy to have you come under my roof.
Luke 7:7 Therefore I did not presume to come to you. But say the word, and let my servant be healed.
Luke 7:8 For I too am a man set under authority, with soldiers under me: and I say to one, ‘Go,’ and he goes; and to another, ‘Come,’ and he comes; and to my servant, ‘Do this,’ and he does it.”
Luke 7:9 When Jesus heard these things, faith.”
Luke 7:10 And when those who had been sent returned to the house, they found the servant well.
Luke 7:11 Soon afterward  he went to a town called Nain, and his disciples and a great crowd went with him.
Luke 7:12 As he drew near to the gate of the town, behold, a man who had died was being carried out, the only son of his mother, and she was a widow, and a considerable crowd from the town was with her.
Luke 7:13 And when the Lord saw her, said to her, “Do not weep.”
Luke 7:14 Then he came up and touched arise.”
Luke 7:15 And the dead man sat up and began to speak, and Jesus gave him to his mother.
Luke 7:16 Fear seized them all, and “God has visited his people!”
Luke 7:17 And this report about him spread through the whole of Judea and all the surrounding country.
Luke 7:18  The disciples of John reported all these things to him. And John,
Luke 7:19 calling two of his disciples to him, sent them to the Lord, saying, “Are you the one shall we look for another?”
Luke 7:20 And when the men had come to him, they said, “John the Baptist has sent us to you, saying, ‘Are you the one shall we look for another?’”
Luke 7:21 In that hour on many who were blind he bestowed sight.
Luke 7:22 And he answered them, “Go and tell John what you have seen and heard: the poor have good news preached to them.
Luke 7:23 And blessed is the one who is not offended by me.”
Luke 7:24 When John's messengers had gone, Jesus A reed shaken by the wind?
Luke 7:25 What then did you go out to see? A man dressed in soft clothing? Behold, those who are dressed in splendid clothing and live in luxury are in kings' courts.
Luke 7:26 What then did you go out to see? A prophet? Yes, I tell you, and more than a prophet.
Luke 7:27 This is he of whom it is written,  “‘Behold, I send my messenger before your face, who will prepare your way before you.’
Luke 7:28 I tell you, among those born of women none is greater than John. Yet the one who is least in the kingdom of God is greater than he.”
Luke 7:29 ( the baptism of John,
Luke 7:30  the purpose of God for themselves, not having been baptized by him.)
Luke 7:31 “To what then shall I compare the people of this generation, and what are they like?
Luke 7:32 They are like children sitting in the marketplace and calling to one another, “‘We played the flute for you, and you did not dance; we sang a dirge, and you did not weep.’
Luke 7:33 For John the Baptist has come drinking no wine, and you say, ‘He has a demon.’
Luke 7:34 The Son of Man has come a friend of tax collectors and sinners!’
Luke 7:35 Yet wisdom is justified by all her children.”
Luke 7:36  One of the Pharisees asked him to eat with him, and he went into the Pharisee's house and reclined at table.
Luke 7:37  And behold, a woman of the city, who was a sinner, when she learned that he was reclining at table in the Pharisee's house, brought an alabaster flask of ointment,
Luke 7:38 and standing behind him at his feet, weeping, she began to wet his feet with her tears and wiped them with the hair of her head and kissed his feet and anointed them with the ointment.
Luke 7:39 Now when the Pharisee who had invited him saw this, he said to himself, “If would have known who and what sort of woman this is who is touching him, for she is a sinner.”
Luke 7:40 And Jesus answering said to him, “Simon, I have something to say to you.” And he answered, “Say it, Teacher.”
Luke 7:41 “A certain moneylender had two debtors. One owed five hundred denarii, and the other fifty.
Luke 7:42  cancelled the debt of both. Now which of them will love him more?”
Luke 7:43 Simon answered, “The one, I suppose, for whom he cancelled the larger debt.” And he said to him, “You have judged rightly.”
Luke 7:44 Then turning toward the woman he said to Simon, “Do you see this woman? I entered your house; she has wet my feet with her tears and wiped them with her hair.
Luke 7:45  kiss my feet.
Luke 7:46  You did not anoint my head with oil, but she has anointed my feet with ointment.
Luke 7:47 Therefore I tell you, her sins, which are many, are forgiven — for she loved much. But he who is forgiven little, loves little.”
Luke 7:48 And he said to her,  “Your sins are forgiven.”
Luke 7:49 Then those who were at table with him began to say among “Who is this, who even forgives sins?”
Luke 7:50 And he said to the woman,  go in peace.”
Luke 8:1 Soon afterward he went on bringing the good news of the kingdom of God. And the twelve were with him,
Luke 8:2 and also from whom seven demons had gone out,
Luke 8:3 and  out of their means.
Luke 8:4  And when a great crowd was gathering and people from town after town came to him, he said in a parable,
Luke 8:5  “A sower went out to sow his seed. And as he sowed, some fell along the path and was trampled underfoot, and the birds of the air devoured it.
Luke 8:6 And some fell on the rock, and as it grew up, it withered away, because it had no moisture.
Luke 8:7 And some fell among thorns, and the thorns grew up with it and choked it.
Luke 8:8 And some fell into good soil and grew and yielded “He who has ears to hear, let him hear.”
Luke 8:9 And when his disciples asked him what this parable meant,
Luke 8:10 he said,  that ‘seeing they may not see, and hearing they may not understand.’
Luke 8:11  the word of God.
Luke 8:12 The ones along the path are those who have heard; then the devil comes and takes away the word from their hearts, so that they may not believe and be saved.
Luke 8:13 And the ones on the rock are those who, when they hear the word, receive it fall away.
Luke 8:14 And as for what fell among the thorns, they are those who hear, but cares and riches and pleasures of life, and their fruit does not mature.
Luke 8:15 As for that in the good soil, they are those who, hearing the word, hold it fast in an honest and good heart, and with patience.
Luke 8:16  “No one after lighting a lamp covers it with a jar or puts it under a bed, but puts it on a stand, so that those who enter may see the light.
Luke 8:17  For nothing is hidden that will not be made manifest, nor is anything secret that will not be known and come to light.
Luke 8:18  for to the one who has, more will be given, and from the one who has not, even what he thinks that he has will be taken away.”
Luke 8:19   came to him, but they could not reach him because of the crowd.
Luke 8:20 And he was told, “Your mother and your brothers are standing outside, desiring to see you.”
Luke 8:21 But he answered them, “My mother and my brothers are those who hear the word of God and do it.”
Luke 8:22  the lake.” So they set out,
Luke 8:23 and as they sailed he fell asleep. And a windstorm came down on the lake, and they were filling with water and were in danger.
Luke 8:24 And they went and woke him, saying, “Master, Master, we are perishing!” And he awoke and and there was a calm.
Luke 8:25 He said to them, “Where is your faith?” And they he commands even winds and water, and they obey him?”
Luke 8:26   which is opposite Galilee.
Luke 8:27 When Jesus but among the tombs.
Luke 8:28 When he saw Jesus, he the Most High God? I beg you, do not torment me.”
Luke 8:29 For he had commanded the unclean spirit to come out of the man. (For many a time it had seized him. He was kept under guard and bound with chains and shackles, but he would break the bonds and be driven by the demon into the desert.)
Luke 8:30 Jesus then asked him, “What is your name?” And he said, “Legion,” for many demons had entered him.
Luke 8:31 And they begged him not to command them to depart into the abyss.
Luke 8:32 Now a large herd of pigs was feeding there on the hillside, and they begged him to let them enter these. So he gave them permission.
Luke 8:33 Then the demons came out of the man and entered the pigs, and the herd rushed down the steep bank into the lake and drowned.
Luke 8:34 When the herdsmen saw what had happened, they fled and told it in the city and in the country.
Luke 8:35 Then people went out to see what had happened, and they came to Jesus and found the man from whom the demons had gone, sitting clothed and in his right mind, and they were afraid.
Luke 8:36 And those who had seen it told them how the demon-possessed  man had been healed.
Luke 8:37 Then all the people of the surrounding country of the Gerasenes asked him to depart from them, for they were seized with great fear. So he got into the boat and returned.
Luke 8:38 The man from whom the demons had gone begged that he might be with him, but Jesus sent him away, saying,
Luke 8:39 “Return to your home, and declare how much God has done for you.” And he went away, proclaiming throughout the whole city how much Jesus had done for him.
Luke 8:40 Now when Jesus returned, the crowd welcomed him, for they were all waiting for him.
Luke 8:41  a ruler of the synagogue. And falling at Jesus' feet, he implored him to come to his house,
Luke 8:42 for he had pressed around him.
Luke 8:43 And there was a woman  she could not be healed by anyone.
Luke 8:44 She came up behind him and touched immediately her discharge of blood ceased.
Luke 8:45 And Jesus said, “Who was it that touched me?” When all denied it, Peter  said, “Master, the crowds surround you and are pressing in on you!”
Luke 8:46 But Jesus said, “Someone touched me, for I perceive that power has gone out from me.”
Luke 8:47 And when the woman saw that she was not hidden, she came trembling, and falling down before him declared in the presence of all the people why she had touched him, and how she had been immediately healed.
Luke 8:48 And he said to her, “Daughter, go in peace.”
Luke 8:49 While he was still speaking, someone from the Teacher any more.”
Luke 8:50 But Jesus on hearing this answered him, “Do not fear; only believe, and she will be well.”
Luke 8:51 And when he came to the house, he allowed no one to enter with him, except John and James, and the father and mother of the child.
Luke 8:52 And all were weeping and sleeping.”
Luke 8:53 And they laughed at him, knowing that she was dead.
Luke 8:54 But arise.”
Luke 8:55 And her spirit returned, and she got up at once. And he directed that something should be given her to eat.
Luke 8:56 And her parents were amazed, but he charged them to tell no one what had happened.
Luke 9:1  And he called the twelve together and gave them power and authority over all demons and to cure diseases,
Luke 9:2  proclaim the kingdom of God and to heal.
Luke 9:3
Luke 9:4 And whatever house you enter, stay there, and from there depart.
Luke 9:5 And wherever they do not receive you, when you leave that town against them.”
Luke 9:6  And they departed and went through the villages, preaching the gospel and healing everywhere.
Luke 9:7  John had been raised from the dead,
Luke 9:8  by others that one of the prophets of old had risen.
Luke 9:9 Herod said, “John I beheaded, but who is this about whom I hear such things?” And he sought to see him.
Luke 9:10 On their return And he took them and withdrew apart to a town called Bethsaida.
Luke 9:11 When the crowds learned it, they followed him, and he cured those who had need of healing.
Luke 9:12 Now “Send the crowd away to go into the surrounding villages and countryside to find lodging and get provisions, for we are here in a desolate place.”
Luke 9:13 But he said to them,  five loaves and two fish — unless we are to go and buy food for all these people.”
Luke 9:14 For there were about five thousand men. And he said to his disciples, “Have them sit down in groups of about fifty each.”
Luke 9:15 And they did so, and had them all sit down.
Luke 9:16 And taking the five loaves and the two fish, said a blessing over them. Then he broke the loaves and gave them to the disciples to set before the crowd.
Luke 9:17 And they all ate and were satisfied. And what was left over was picked up, twelve baskets of broken pieces.
Luke 9:18  Now it happened that as he was praying alone, the disciples were with him. And he asked them, “Who do the crowds say that I am?”
Luke 9:19 And they answered, Elijah, and others, that one of the prophets of old has risen.”
Luke 9:20 Then he said to them, “But who do you say that I am?” And Peter answered, “The Christ of God.”
Luke 9:21  And he strictly charged and commanded them to tell this to no one,
Luke 9:22  the third day be raised.”
Luke 9:23 And he said to all, “If anyone would come after me, let him daily and follow me.
Luke 9:24 For whoever would save his life will lose it, but whoever loses his life for my sake will save it.
Luke 9:25  For what does it profit a man if he gains the whole world and loses or forfeits himself?
Luke 9:26 For the holy angels.
Luke 9:27 But I tell you truly, there are some standing here who will not until they see the kingdom of God.”
Luke 9:28  went up on the mountain to pray.
Luke 9:29 And as he was praying, the appearance of his face was his clothing became dazzling white.
Luke 9:30 And behold, two men were talking with him, Moses and Elijah,
Luke 9:31 who appeared in glory and spoke of his departure,  which he was about to accomplish at Jerusalem.
Luke 9:32 Now Peter and those who were with him they saw his glory and the two men who stood with him.
Luke 9:33 And as the men were parting from him, Peter said to Jesus, “Master, it is good that we are here. Let us make three not knowing what he said.
Luke 9:34 As he was saying these things, a cloud came and overshadowed them, and they were afraid as they entered the cloud.
Luke 9:35 And listen to him!”
Luke 9:36 And when the voice had spoken, Jesus was found alone. And they kept silent and told no one in those days anything of what they had seen.
Luke 9:37  On the next day, when they had come down from the mountain, a great crowd met him.
Luke 9:38 And behold, a man from the crowd cried out, “Teacher, I beg you to look at my son, for he is my only child.
Luke 9:39 And behold, a spirit seizes him, and he suddenly cries out. It convulses him so that he foams at the mouth, and shatters him, and will hardly leave him.
Luke 9:40 And I begged your disciples to cast it out, but they could not.”
Luke 9:41 Jesus answered, “O how long am I to be with you and bear with you? Bring your son here.”
Luke 9:42 While he was coming, the demon threw him to the ground and convulsed him. But Jesus gave him back to his father.
Luke 9:43 And all were astonished at to his disciples,
Luke 9:44 “Let these words sink into your ears: The Son of Man is about to be delivered into the hands of men.”
Luke 9:45  it was concealed from them, so that they might not perceive it. And they were afraid to ask him about this saying.
Luke 9:46  An argument arose among them as to which of them was the greatest.
Luke 9:47 But Jesus, knowing the reasoning of their hearts, took a child and put him by his side
Luke 9:48 and said to them,  he who is least among you all is the one who is great.”
Luke 9:49  we tried to stop him, because he does not follow with us.”
Luke 9:50 But Jesus said to him, “Do not stop him, for the one who is not against you is for you.”
Luke 9:51 When the days drew near for to go to Jerusalem.
Luke 9:52 And the Samaritans, to make preparations for him.
Luke 9:53 But his face was set toward Jerusalem.
Luke 9:54 And when his disciples James and John saw it, they said, “Lord, do you want us to tell
Luke 9:55 But he turned and rebuked them.
Luke 9:56 And they went on to another village.
Luke 9:57 As they were going someone said to him, “I will follow you wherever you go.”
Luke 9:58 And Jesus said to him, “Foxes have holes, and birds of the air have nests, but the Son of Man has nowhere to lay his head.”
Luke 9:59 To another he said, “Follow me.” But he said, “Lord, let me first go and bury my father.”
Luke 9:60 And Jesus proclaim the kingdom of God.”
Luke 9:61 Yet another said, “I will follow you, Lord, but let me first say farewell to those at my home.”
Luke 9:62 Jesus said to him,  “No one who puts his hand to the plow and looks back is fit for the kingdom of God.”
Luke 10:1 After this the Lord appointed sent them on ahead of him, two by two, into every town and place where he himself was about to go.
Luke 10:2  Therefore pray earnestly to the Lord of the harvest to send out laborers into his harvest.
Luke 10:3 Go your way; behold, I am sending you out as lambs in the midst of wolves.
Luke 10:4  greet no one on the road.
Luke 10:5 Whatever house you enter, first say, ‘Peace be to this house!’
Luke 10:6 And if a son of peace is there, your peace will rest upon him. But if not, it will return to you.
Luke 10:7 And remain in the same house, eating and drinking what they provide, for the laborer deserves his wages. Do not go from house to house.
Luke 10:8 Whenever you enter a town and they receive you, eat what is set before you.
Luke 10:9 Heal the sick in it and say to them, ‘The kingdom of God has come near to you.’
Luke 10:10 But whenever you enter a town and they do not receive you, go into its streets and say,
Luke 10:11  the kingdom of God has come near.’
Luke 10:12 I tell you, that day for Sodom than for that town.
Luke 10:13  Tyre and Sidon, they would have repented long ago, sitting in sackcloth and ashes.
Luke 10:14  Tyre and Sidon than for you.
Luke 10:15 And you, Capernaum, Hades.
Luke 10:16  the one who rejects me rejects him who sent me.”
Luke 10:17  even the demons are subject to us in your name!”
Luke 10:18 And he said to them,  fall like lightning from heaven.
Luke 10:19 Behold, I have given you authority nothing shall hurt you.
Luke 10:20  your names are written in heaven.”
Luke 10:21
Luke 10:22  to whom the Son chooses to reveal him.”
Luke 10:23 Then turning to the disciples he said privately,  “Blessed are the eyes that see what you see!
Luke 10:24 For I tell you that many prophets and kings desired to see what you see, and did not see it, and to hear what you hear, and did not hear it.”
Luke 10:25  inherit eternal life?”
Luke 10:26 He said to him, “What is written in the Law? How do you read it?”
Luke 10:27 And he answered, your neighbor as yourself.”
Luke 10:28 And he said to him, “You have answered correctly; do this, and you will live.”
Luke 10:29 But he, desiring to justify himself, said to Jesus, “And who is my neighbor?”
Luke 10:30 Jesus replied, “A man was going down from Jerusalem to Jericho, and he fell among robbers, who stripped him and beat him and departed, leaving him half dead.
Luke 10:31 Now by chance a priest was going down that road, and when he saw him he passed by on the other side.
Luke 10:32 So likewise a Levite, when he came to the place and saw him, passed by on the other side.
Luke 10:33 But a Samaritan, as he journeyed, came to where he was, and when he saw him, he had compassion.
Luke 10:34 He went to him and oil and wine. Then he set him on his own animal and brought him to an inn and took care of him.
Luke 10:35 And the next day he took out two  and gave them to the innkeeper, saying, ‘Take care of him, and whatever more you spend, I will repay you when I come back.’
Luke 10:36 Which of these three, do you think, proved to be a neighbor to the man who fell among the robbers?”
Luke 10:37 He said, “The one who showed him mercy.” And Jesus said to him, “You go, and do likewise.”
Luke 10:38 Now as they went on their way, Jesus welcomed him into her house.
Luke 10:39 And she had a sister called sat at the Lord's feet and listened to his teaching.
Luke 10:40 But Martha was distracted with much serving. And she went up to him and said, “Lord, do you not care that my sister has left me to serve alone? Tell her then to help me.”
Luke 10:41 But the Lord answered her, “Martha, Martha, you are anxious and troubled about many things,
Luke 10:42 but one thing is necessary. the good portion, which will not be taken away from her.”
Luke 11:1 Now Jesus as John taught his disciples.”
Luke 11:2 And he said to them,  Your kingdom come.
Luke 11:3
Luke 11:4 and lead us not into temptation.”
Luke 11:5 And he said to them, “Which of you who has a friend will go to him at midnight and say to him, ‘Friend, lend me three loaves,
Luke 11:6 for a friend of mine has arrived on a journey, and I have nothing to set before him’;
Luke 11:7 and he will answer from within, ‘Do not bother me; the door is now shut, and my children are with me in bed. I cannot get up and give you anything’?
Luke 11:8 I tell you, though he will not get up and give him anything  he will rise and give him whatever he needs.
Luke 11:9 And I tell you, knock, and it will be opened to you.
Luke 11:10 For everyone who asks receives, and the one who seeks finds, and to the one who knocks it will be opened.
Luke 11:11 What father among you, if his son asks for  a fish, will instead of a fish give him a serpent;
Luke 11:12 or if he asks for an egg, will give him a scorpion?
Luke 11:13 If you then, give the Holy Spirit to those who ask him!”
Luke 11:14  Now he was casting out a demon that was mute. When the demon had gone out, the mute man spoke, and the people marveled.
Luke 11:15 But some of them said, “He casts out demons by Beelzebul, the prince of demons,”
Luke 11:16 while others, to test him, kept seeking from him a sign from heaven.
Luke 11:17  knowing their thoughts, said to them, “Every kingdom divided against itself is laid waste, and a divided household falls.
Luke 11:18 And if Satan also is divided against himself, how will his kingdom stand? For you say that I cast out demons by Beelzebul.
Luke 11:19 And if I cast out demons by Beelzebul, your sons cast them out? Therefore they will be your judges.
Luke 11:20 But if it is by the kingdom of God has come upon you.
Luke 11:21 When a strong man, fully armed, guards his own palace, his goods are safe;
Luke 11:22  divides his spoil.
Luke 11:23  Whoever is not with me is against me, and whoever does not gather with me scatters.
Luke 11:24  waterless places seeking rest, and finding none it says, ‘I will return to my house from which I came.’
Luke 11:25 And when it comes, it finds the house swept and put in order.
Luke 11:26 Then it goes and brings seven other spirits more evil than itself, and they enter and dwell there. And the last state of that person is worse than the first.”
Luke 11:27 As he said these things, “Blessed is the womb that bore you, and the breasts at which you nursed!”
Luke 11:28 But he said,  keep it!”
Luke 11:29  It seeks for a sign, but no sign will be given to it except the sign of Jonah.
Luke 11:30 For as Jonah became a sign to the people of Nineveh, so will the Son of Man be to this generation.
Luke 11:31  something greater than Solomon is here.
Luke 11:32  something greater than Jonah is here.
Luke 11:33  “No one after lighting a lamp puts it in a cellar or under a basket, but on a stand, so that those who enter may see the light.
Luke 11:34 Your eye is bad, your body is full of darkness.
Luke 11:35  Therefore be careful lest the light in you be darkness.
Luke 11:36 If then your whole body is full of light, having no part dark, it will be wholly bright, as when a lamp with its rays gives you light.”
Luke 11:37 While Jesus a Pharisee asked him to dine with him, so he went in and reclined at table.
Luke 11:38 The Pharisee was astonished to see that he did not first wash before dinner.
Luke 11:39 And the Lord said to him,  greed and wickedness.
Luke 11:40  Did not he who made the outside make the inside also?
Luke 11:41 But everything is clean for you.
Luke 11:42  These you ought to have done, without neglecting the others.
Luke 11:43 Woe to you Pharisees! For you love the best seat in the synagogues and greetings in the marketplaces.
Luke 11:44 Woe to you! For you are like unmarked graves, and people walk over them without knowing it.”
Luke 11:45 One of the lawyers answered him, “Teacher, in saying these things you insult us also.”
Luke 11:46 And he said, “Woe to you you load people with burdens hard to bear, and you yourselves do not touch the burdens with one of your fingers.
Luke 11:47  Woe to you! For you build the tombs of the prophets whom your fathers killed.
Luke 11:48  your fathers, for they killed them, and you build their tombs.
Luke 11:49 Therefore also kill and persecute,’
Luke 11:50 so that charged against this generation,
Luke 11:51 from the blood of required of this generation.
Luke 11:52 Woe to you did not enter yourselves, and you hindered those who were entering.”
Luke 11:53 As he went away from there, the scribes and the Pharisees began to press him hard and to provoke him to speak about many things,
Luke 11:54  to catch him in something he might say.
Luke 12:1 In the meantime, which is hypocrisy.
Luke 12:2  Nothing is covered up that will not be revealed, or hidden that will not be known.
Luke 12:3 Therefore whatever you have said in the dark shall be heard in the light, and what you have whispered in the housetops.
Luke 12:4 “I tell you, my friends, do not fear those who kill the body, and after that have nothing more that they can do.
Luke 12:5 But I will warn you whom to fear: fear him  Yes, I tell you, fear him!
Luke 12:6 Are not five sparrows sold for two pennies? not one of them is forgotten before God.
Luke 12:7 Why, you are of more value than many sparrows.
Luke 12:8 “And I tell you, before the angels of God,
Luke 12:9 but before the angels of God.
Luke 12:10 And blasphemes against the Holy Spirit will not be forgiven.
Luke 12:11  do not be anxious about how you should defend yourself or what you should say,
Luke 12:12  for the Holy Spirit will teach you in that very hour what you ought to say.”
Luke 12:13  Someone in the crowd said to him, “Teacher, tell my brother to divide the inheritance with me.”
Luke 12:14 But he said to him,  who made me a judge or arbitrator over you?”
Luke 12:15 And he said to them,  “Take care, and be on your guard against all covetousness, for one's life does not consist in the abundance of his possessions.”
Luke 12:16 And he told them a parable, saying,  “The land of a rich man produced plentifully,
Luke 12:17 and he thought to himself, ‘What shall I do, for I have nowhere to store my crops?’
Luke 12:18 And he said, ‘I will do this: I will tear down my barns and build larger ones, and there I will store all my grain and my goods.
Luke 12:19 And I will say to my soul, “Soul, you have ample goods laid up eat, drink, be merry.”’
Luke 12:20 But God said to him, whose will they be?’
Luke 12:21 So is the one who lays up treasure for himself and is not rich toward God.”
Luke 12:22 And he said to his disciples,  do not be anxious about your life, what you will eat, nor about your body, what you will put on.
Luke 12:23 For life is more than food, and the body more than clothing.
Luke 12:24  Of how much more value are you than the birds!
Luke 12:25 And which of you by being anxious can add a single hour to his
Luke 12:26 If then you are not able to do as small a thing as that, why are you anxious about the rest?
Luke 12:27 Consider the lilies, how they grow: they neither toil nor spin, even Solomon in all his glory was not arrayed like one of these.
Luke 12:28 But if God so clothes the grass, which is alive in the field today, and tomorrow is thrown into the oven, how much more will he clothe you, O you of little faith!
Luke 12:29 And do not seek what you are to eat and what you are to drink, nor be worried.
Luke 12:30 For your Father knows that you need them.
Luke 12:31 Instead, and these things will be added to you.
Luke 12:32  the kingdom.
Luke 12:33  a treasure in the heavens that does not fail, where no thief approaches and no moth destroys.
Luke 12:34  For where your treasure is, there will your heart be also.
Luke 12:35  keep your lamps burning,
Luke 12:36 and be like men who are knocks.
Luke 12:37  have them recline at table, and he will come and serve them.
Luke 12:38 If he comes in the second watch, or in the third, and finds them awake, blessed are those servants!
Luke 12:39   would not have left his house to be broken into.
Luke 12:40 You also must be the Son of Man is coming at an hour you do not expect.”
Luke 12:41 Peter said, “Lord, are you telling this parable for us or for all?”
Luke 12:42 And the Lord said, “Who then is manager, whom his master will set over his household, to give them their portion of food at the proper time?
Luke 12:43   whom his master will find so doing when he comes.
Luke 12:44 Truly, I say to you, he will set him over all his possessions.
Luke 12:45 But if that servant says to himself, ‘My master get drunk,
Luke 12:46 the master of that servant will come at an hour he does not know, and will cut him in pieces and put him with the unfaithful.
Luke 12:47  severe beating.
Luke 12:48  Everyone to whom much was given, of him much will be required, and from him to whom they entrusted much, they will demand the more.
Luke 12:49  “I came to cast fire on the earth, and would that it were already kindled!
Luke 12:50  great is my distress until it is accomplished!
Luke 12:51  No, I tell you, but rather division.
Luke 12:52 For from now on in one house there will be five divided, three against two and two against three.
Luke 12:53 They will be divided, father against son and son against father, mother against daughter and daughter against mother, mother-in-law against her daughter-in-law and daughter-in-law against mother-in-law.”
Luke 12:54 He also said to the crowds,  a cloud rising in the west, you say at once, ‘A shower is coming.’ And so it happens.
Luke 12:55 And scorching heat,’ and it happens.
Luke 12:56 You hypocrites! You know how to interpret the appearance of earth and sky, but why do you not know how to interpret the present time?
Luke 12:57 “And why for yourselves what is right?
Luke 12:58  As you go with your accuser before the magistrate, make an effort to settle with him on the way, lest he drag you to the judge, and the judge hand you over to the officer, and the officer put you in prison.
Luke 12:59 I tell you,
Luke 13:1 There were some present at that very time who told him about the Galileans whose blood Pilate had mingled with their sacrifices.
Luke 13:2 And he answered them,  “Do you think that these Galileans were worse sinners than all the other Galileans, because they suffered in this way?
Luke 13:3 No, I tell you; but unless you repent, you will all likewise perish.
Luke 13:4 Or those eighteen on whom the tower in Siloam fell and killed them: do you think that they were worse offenders than all the others who lived in Jerusalem?
Luke 13:5 No, I tell you; but unless you repent, you will all likewise perish.”
Luke 13:6 And he told this parable: “A man had a fig tree planted in his vineyard, and he came seeking fruit on it and found none.
Luke 13:7 And he said to the vinedresser, ‘Look, for three years now I have come seeking fruit on this fig tree, and I find none. Cut it down. Why should it use up the ground?’
Luke 13:8 And he answered him, ‘Sir, let it alone this year also, until I dig around it and put on manure.
Luke 13:9 Then if it should bear fruit next year, well and good; but if not, you can cut it down.’”
Luke 13:10 Now he was teaching in one of the synagogues on the Sabbath.
Luke 13:11 And behold, there was a woman who had had a disabling spirit for eighteen years. She was bent over and could not fully straighten herself.
Luke 13:12 When Jesus saw her, he called her over and said to her, “Woman, you are freed from your disability.”
Luke 13:13 And he glorified God.
Luke 13:14 But “There are six days in which work ought to be done. Come on those days and be healed, and not on the Sabbath day.”
Luke 13:15 Then the Lord answered him, “You hypocrites! Does not each of you on the Sabbath untie his ox or his donkey from the manger and lead it away to water it?
Luke 13:16 And ought not this woman, Satan bound for eighteen years, be loosed from this bond on the Sabbath day?”
Luke 13:17 As he said these things, all the people rejoiced at all the glorious things that were done by him.
Luke 13:18  He said therefore, “What is the kingdom of God like? And to what shall I compare it?
Luke 13:19 It is like a grain of mustard seed that a man took and sowed in his garden, and it grew and became a tree, and the birds of the air made nests in its branches.”
Luke 13:20 And again he said, “To what shall I compare the kingdom of God?
Luke 13:21  all leavened.”
Luke 13:22  journeying toward Jerusalem.
Luke 13:23 And someone said to him, “Lord, will those who are saved be few?” And he said to them,
Luke 13:24  to enter through the narrow door. For many, I tell you, will seek to enter and will not be able.
Luke 13:25  ‘I do not know where you come from.’
Luke 13:26 Then you will begin to say, ‘We ate and drank in your presence, and you taught in our streets.’
Luke 13:27 But he will say, ‘I tell you, Depart from me, all you workers of evil!’
Luke 13:28  you yourselves cast out.
Luke 13:29 And recline at table in the kingdom of God.
Luke 13:30 And behold, some are last who will be first, and some are first who will be last.”
Luke 13:31 At that very hour some Pharisees came and said to him, “Get away from Herod wants to kill you.”
Luke 13:32 And he said to them, “Go and tell that fox, ‘Behold, I cast out demons and perform cures today and tomorrow, and the third day I finish my course.
Luke 13:33 Nevertheless, a prophet should perish away from Jerusalem.’
Luke 13:34  you were not willing!
Luke 13:35 Behold, ‘Blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord!’”
Luke 14:1 One Sabbath, watching him carefully.
Luke 14:2 And behold, there was a man before him who had dropsy.
Luke 14:3 And Jesus responded to “Is it lawful to heal on the Sabbath, or not?”
Luke 14:4 But they remained silent. Then he took him and healed him and sent him away.
Luke 14:5 And he said to them,   or an ox that has fallen into a well on a Sabbath day, will not immediately pull him out?”
Luke 14:6  And they could not reply to these things.
Luke 14:7 Now he told a parable to those who were invited, when he noticed how they chose the places of honor, saying to them,
Luke 14:8 “When you are invited by someone to a wedding feast, do not sit down in a place of honor, lest someone more distinguished than you be invited by him,
Luke 14:9 and he who invited you both will come and say to you, ‘Give your place to this person,’ and then you will begin with shame to take the lowest place.
Luke 14:10 But when you are invited, go and sit in the lowest place, so that when your host comes he may say to you, ‘Friend, move up higher.’ Then you will be honored in the presence of all who sit at table with you.
Luke 14:11 For everyone who exalts himself will be humbled, and he who humbles himself will be exalted.”
Luke 14:12 He said also to the man who had invited him, “When you give lest they also invite you in return and you be repaid.
Luke 14:13 But when you give a feast, the poor, the crippled, the lame, the blind,
Luke 14:14 and you will be blessed, because they cannot repay you. For you will be repaid the resurrection of the just.”
Luke 14:15 When one of those who reclined at table with him heard these things, he said to him, eat bread in the kingdom of God!”
Luke 14:16 But he said to him,  gave a great banquet and invited many.
Luke 14:17 And at the time for the banquet he  to say to those who had been invited, ‘Come, for everything is now ready.’
Luke 14:18 But they all alike began to make excuses. The first said to him, ‘I have bought a field, and I must go out and see it. Please have me excused.’
Luke 14:19 And another said, ‘I have bought five yoke of oxen, and I go to examine them. Please have me excused.’
Luke 14:20 And another said, ‘I have married a wife, and therefore I cannot come.’
Luke 14:21 So the servant came and reported these things to his master. Then the master of the house became angry and said to his servant, ‘Go out quickly to the streets and lanes of the city, and bring in the poor and crippled and blind and lame.’
Luke 14:22 And the servant said, ‘Sir, what you commanded has been done, and still there is room.’
Luke 14:23 And the master said to the servant, ‘Go out to the highways and hedges and compel people to come in, that my house may be filled.
Luke 14:24 For I tell you, none of those men who were invited shall taste my banquet.’”
Luke 14:25 Now great crowds accompanied him, and he turned and said to them,
Luke 14:26  yes, and even his own life, he cannot be my disciple.
Luke 14:27  bear his own cross and come after me cannot be my disciple.
Luke 14:28 For which of you, desiring to build a tower, does not first sit down and count the cost, whether he has enough to complete it?
Luke 14:29 Otherwise, when he has laid a foundation and is not able to finish, all who see it begin to mock him,
Luke 14:30 saying, ‘This man began to build and was not able to finish.’
Luke 14:31 Or what king, going out to encounter another king in war, will not sit down first and deliberate whether he is able with ten thousand to meet him who comes against him with twenty thousand?
Luke 14:32 And if not, while the other is yet a great way off, he sends a delegation and asks for terms of peace.
Luke 14:33  does not renounce all that he has cannot be my disciple.
Luke 14:34  but if salt has lost its taste, how shall its saltiness be restored?
Luke 14:35 It is of no use either for the soil or for the manure pile. It is thrown away. He who has ears to hear, let him hear.”
Luke 15:1 Now the tax collectors and sinners were all drawing near to hear him.
Luke 15:2 And the Pharisees and the scribes eats with them.”
Luke 15:3 So he told them this parable:
Luke 15:4  go after the one that is lost, until he finds it?
Luke 15:5 And when he has found it, he lays it on his shoulders, rejoicing.
Luke 15:6 And when he comes home, he calls together his friends and his neighbors, saying to them, ‘Rejoice with me, for I have found my sheep that was lost.’
Luke 15:7 Just so, I tell you, there will be more joy in heaven over one sinner who righteous persons who need no repentance.
Luke 15:8 “Or what woman, having ten silver coins,  if she loses one coin, does not light a lamp and sweep the house and seek diligently until she finds it?
Luke 15:9 And when she has found it, she calls together her friends and neighbors, saying, ‘Rejoice with me, for I have found the coin that I had lost.’
Luke 15:10 Just so, I tell you, there is joy before the angels of God over one sinner who repents.”
Luke 15:11 And he said, “There was a man who had two sons.
Luke 15:12 And the younger of them said to his father, ‘Father, give me his property between them.
Luke 15:13 Not many days later, the younger son gathered all he had and took a journey into a far country, and there he squandered his property in reckless living.
Luke 15:14 And when he had spent everything, a severe famine arose in that country, and he began to be in need.
Luke 15:15 So he went and hired himself out to  one of the citizens of that country, who sent him into his fields to feed pigs.
Luke 15:16 And he was longing to be fed with the pods that the pigs ate, and no one gave him anything.
Luke 15:17 “But came to himself, he said, ‘How many of my father's hired servants have more than enough bread, but I perish here with hunger!
Luke 15:18 I will arise and go to my father, and I will say to him, “Father, heaven and before you.
Luke 15:19  I am no longer worthy to be called your son. Treat me as one of your hired servants.”’
Luke 15:20 And he arose and came to his father. But while he was still a long way off, his father saw him and felt compassion, and kissed him.
Luke 15:21 And the son said to him, ‘Father, I have sinned against heaven and before you.
Luke 15:22 But the father said to his servants, shoes on his feet.
Luke 15:23 And bring let us eat and celebrate.
Luke 15:24 For this my son was dead, and is alive again; he was lost, and is found.’ And they began to celebrate.
Luke 15:25 “Now his older son was in the field, and as he came and drew near to the house, he heard music and dancing.
Luke 15:26 And he called one of the servants and asked what these things meant.
Luke 15:27 And he said to him, ‘Your brother has come, and your father has killed the fattened calf, because he has received him back safe and sound.’
Luke 15:28 But he was angry and refused to go in. His father came out and entreated him,
Luke 15:29 but he answered his father, ‘Look, these many years I have served you, and I never disobeyed your command, yet you never gave me a young goat, that I might celebrate with my friends.
Luke 15:30 But when this son of yours came, your property with prostitutes, you killed the fattened calf for him!’
Luke 15:31 And he said to him, ‘Son, you are always with me, and all that is mine is yours.
Luke 15:32 It was fitting was dead, and is alive; he was lost, and is found.’”
Luke 16:1 He also said to the disciples, “There was a rich man who had a manager, and charges were brought to him that this man was wasting his possessions.
Luke 16:2 And he called him and said to him, ‘What is this that I hear about you? Turn in the account of your management, for you can no longer be manager.’
Luke 16:3 And the manager said to himself, ‘What shall I do, since my master is taking the management away from me? I am not strong enough to dig, and I am ashamed to beg.
Luke 16:4 I have decided what to do, so that when I am removed from management, people may receive me into their houses.’
Luke 16:5 So, summoning his master's debtors one by one, he said to the first, ‘How much do you owe my master?’
Luke 16:6 He said, ‘A hundred measures  of oil.’ He said to him, ‘Take your bill, and sit down quickly and write fifty.’
Luke 16:7 Then he said to another, ‘And how much do you owe?’ He said, ‘A hundred measures  of wheat.’ He said to him, ‘Take your bill, and write eighty.’
Luke 16:8 The master commended the dishonest manager for his the sons of light.
Luke 16:9 And I tell you,  so that when it fails they may receive you into the eternal dwellings.
Luke 16:10  faithful in a very little is also faithful in much, and one who is dishonest in a very little is also dishonest in much.
Luke 16:11 If then you have not been faithful in the unrighteous wealth, who will entrust to you the true riches?
Luke 16:12 And if you have not been faithful in that which is another's, who will give you that which is your own?
Luke 16:13  No servant can serve two masters, for either he will hate the one and love the other, or he will be devoted to the one and despise the other. You cannot serve God and money.”
Luke 16:14  ridiculed him.
Luke 16:15 And he said to them, “You are those who is an abomination in the sight of God.
Luke 16:16
Luke 16:17 But it is easier for heaven and earth to pass away than for one dot of the Law to become void.
Luke 16:18  “Everyone who divorces his wife and marries another commits adultery, and he who marries a woman divorced from her husband commits adultery.
Luke 16:19 “There was a rich man who was clothed in who feasted sumptuously every day.
Luke 16:20 And at his gate was laid a poor man named Lazarus, covered with sores,
Luke 16:21 who desired to be fed with what fell from the rich man's table. Moreover, even the dogs came and licked his sores.
Luke 16:22 The poor man died and was carried by  The rich man also died and was buried,
Luke 16:23 and in at his side.
Luke 16:24 And he called out, I am in anguish in this flame.’
Luke 16:25 But Abraham said, ‘Child, remember that you in your lifetime received your good things, and Lazarus in like manner bad things; but now he is comforted here, and you are in anguish.
Luke 16:26 And besides all this, between us and you a great chasm has been fixed, in order that those who would pass from here to you may not be able, and none may cross from there to us.’
Luke 16:27 And he said, ‘Then I beg you, father, to send him to my father's house —
Luke 16:28 for I have five brothers — so that he may warn them, lest they also come into this place of torment.’
Luke 16:29 But Abraham said, ‘They have let them hear them.’
Luke 16:30 And he said, ‘No, father Abraham, but if someone goes to them from the dead, they will repent.’
Luke 16:31 He said to him, ‘If they do not hear neither will they be convinced if someone should rise from the dead.’”
Luke 17:1 And he said to his disciples,  woe to the one through whom they come!
Luke 17:2
Luke 17:3 Pay attention to yourselves! forgive him,
Luke 17:4 and if he sins against you seven times in the day, and turns to you seven times, saying, ‘I repent,’ you must forgive him.”
Luke 17:5  “Increase our faith!”
Luke 17:6 And the Lord said,  mulberry tree, ‘Be uprooted and planted in the sea,’ and it would obey you.
Luke 17:7 “Will any one of you who has a servant  plowing or keeping sheep say to him when he has come in from the field, ‘Come at once and recline at table’?
Luke 17:8 Will he not rather say to him, ‘Prepare supper for me, and  and serve me while I eat and drink, and afterward you will eat and drink’?
Luke 17:9 Does he thank the servant because he did what was commanded?
Luke 17:10 So you also, when you have done all that you were commanded, say, ‘We are  we have only done what was our duty.’”
Luke 17:11  he was passing along between Samaria and Galilee.
Luke 17:12 And as he entered a village, he was met by ten lepers, who stood at a distance
Luke 17:13 and lifted up their voices, saying, “Jesus, Master, have mercy on us.”
Luke 17:14 When he saw them he said to them, “Go and show yourselves to the priests.” And as they went they were cleansed.
Luke 17:15 Then one of them, when he saw that he was healed, turned back, praising God with a loud voice;
Luke 17:16 and a Samaritan.
Luke 17:17 Then Jesus answered, “Were not ten cleansed? Where are the nine?
Luke 17:18 Was no one found to return and foreigner?”
Luke 17:19 And he said to him, “Rise and go your way;
Luke 17:20 Being asked by the Pharisees is not coming in ways that can be observed,
Luke 17:21 nor
Luke 17:22 And he said to the disciples,  to see one of the days of the Son of Man, and you will not see it.
Luke 17:23  And they will say to you, ‘Look, there!’ or ‘Look, here!’ Do not go out or follow them.
Luke 17:24
Luke 17:25 But first be rejected by this generation.
Luke 17:26  Noah, so will it be in the days of the Son of Man.
Luke 17:27  They were eating and drinking and marrying and being given in marriage, until the day when Noah entered the ark, and the flood came and destroyed them all.
Luke 17:28 Likewise, just as it was in the days of Lot — they were eating and drinking, buying and selling, planting and building,
Luke 17:29  but on the day when Lot went out from Sodom, fire and sulfur rained from heaven and destroyed them all —
Luke 17:30 so will it be on the day when the Son of Man is revealed.
Luke 17:31 On that day, the housetop, with his goods in the house, not come down to take them away, and likewise let the one who is in the field not turn back.
Luke 17:32  Remember Lot's wife.
Luke 17:33  keep it.
Luke 17:34 I tell you, in that night there will be two in one bed. One will be taken and the other left.
Luke 17:35
Luke 17:36
Luke 17:37 And they said to him, “Where, Lord?” He said to them,   will gather.”
Luke 18:1 And he told them a parable to the effect that they ought lose heart.
Luke 18:2 He said, “In a certain city there was a judge who neither feared God nor respected man.
Luke 18:3 And there was a widow in that city who kept coming to him and saying, ‘Give me justice against my adversary.’
Luke 18:4 For a while he refused, but afterward he said to himself, ‘Though I neither fear God nor respect man,
Luke 18:5 yet because this widow keeps bothering me, I will give her justice, so that she will not beat me down by her continual coming.’”
Luke 18:6 And the Lord said, “Hear what the unrighteous judge says.
Luke 18:7 And Will he delay long over them?
Luke 18:8 I tell you, he will give justice to them will he find faith on earth?”
Luke 18:9 He also told this parable to some and treated others with contempt:
Luke 18:10 “Two men went up into the temple to pray, one a Pharisee and the other a tax collector.
Luke 18:11 The Pharisee, thus: ‘God, I thank you that I am not like other men, extortioners, unjust, adulterers, or even like this tax collector.
Luke 18:12  I give tithes of all that I get.’
Luke 18:13 But the tax collector, be merciful to me, a sinner!’
Luke 18:14 I tell you, this man went down to his house justified, rather than the other. For everyone who exalts himself will be humbled, but the one who humbles himself will be exalted.”
Luke 18:15  rebuked them.
Luke 18:16 But Jesus called them to him, saying,  for to such belongs the kingdom of God.
Luke 18:17  receive the kingdom of God like a child shall not enter it.”
Luke 18:18  inherit eternal life?”
Luke 18:19 And Jesus said to him, “Why do you call me good? No one is good except God alone.
Luke 18:20 You know the commandments: ‘Do not commit adultery, Do not murder, Do not steal, Do not bear false witness, Honor your father and mother.’”
Luke 18:21 And he said, “All these I have kept from my youth.”
Luke 18:22 When Jesus heard this, he said to him, “One thing you still lack. treasure in heaven; and come, follow me.”
Luke 18:23  But when he heard these things, he became very sad, for he was extremely rich.
Luke 18:24 Jesus, seeing that he had become sad, said,  the kingdom of God!
Luke 18:25 For it is easier for a camel to go through the eye of a needle than for a rich person to enter the kingdom of God.”
Luke 18:26 Those who heard it said, “Then who can be saved?”
Luke 18:27 But he said,  “What is impossible with man is possible with God.”
Luke 18:28 And Peter said, “See, we have left our homes and followed you.”
Luke 18:29 And he said to them, “Truly, I say to you,  or parents or children, for the sake of the kingdom of God,
Luke 18:30 who will not receive the age to come eternal life.”
Luke 18:31  everything that is written about the Son of Man by the prophets will be accomplished.
Luke 18:32 For he will be spit upon.
Luke 18:33 And after flogging him, they will kill him, and on the third day he will rise.”
Luke 18:34  This saying was hidden from them, and they did not grasp what was said.
Luke 18:35  a blind man was sitting by the roadside begging.
Luke 18:36 And hearing a crowd going by, he inquired what this meant.
Luke 18:37 They told him, “Jesus of Nazareth is passing by.”
Luke 18:38 And he cried out, “Jesus, Son of David, have mercy on me!”
Luke 18:39 And those who were in front rebuked him, telling him to be silent. But he cried out all the more, “Son of David, have mercy on me!”
Luke 18:40 And Jesus stopped and commanded him to be brought to him. And when he came near, he asked him,
Luke 18:41  “What do you want me to do for you?” He said, “Lord, let me recover my sight.”
Luke 18:42 And Jesus said to him, “Recover your sight; made you well.”
Luke 18:43 And immediately he recovered his sight and followed him, all the people, when they saw it, gave praise to God.
Luke 19:1  He entered Jericho and was passing through.
Luke 19:2 And behold, there was a man named Zacchaeus. He was a chief tax collector and was rich.
Luke 19:3 And he was seeking to see who Jesus was, but on account of the crowd he could not, because he was small in stature.
Luke 19:4 So he ran on ahead and climbed up into a sycamore tree to see him, for he was about to pass that way.
Luke 19:5 And when Jesus came to the place, he looked up and said to him, “Zacchaeus, hurry and come down, for I must stay at your house today.”
Luke 19:6 So he hurried and came down and received him joyfully.
Luke 19:7 And when they saw it, they all grumbled, “He has gone in to be the guest of a man who is a sinner.”
Luke 19:8 And Zacchaeus stood and said to the Lord, “Behold, Lord, the half of my goods fourfold.”
Luke 19:9 And Jesus said to him, “Today salvation has come to this house, since he also is a son of Abraham.
Luke 19:10 For the Son of Man came to seek and to save the lost.”
Luke 19:11 As they heard these things, he proceeded to tell a parable, because he was near to Jerusalem, and because they supposed that the kingdom of God was to appear immediately.
Luke 19:12 He said therefore,  “A nobleman went into a far country to receive for himself a kingdom and then return.
Luke 19:13 Calling until I come.’
Luke 19:14 But his citizens hated him and sent a delegation after him, saying, ‘We do not want this man to reign over us.’
Luke 19:15 When he returned, having received the kingdom, he ordered these servants to whom he had given the money to be called to him, that he might know what they had gained by doing business.
Luke 19:16 The first came before him, saying, ‘Lord, your mina has made ten minas more.’
Luke 19:17 And he said to him, ‘Well done, good servant! you shall have authority over ten cities.’
Luke 19:18 And the second came, saying, ‘Lord, your mina has made five minas.’
Luke 19:19 And he said to him, ‘And you are to be over five cities.’
Luke 19:20 Then another came, saying, ‘Lord, here is your mina, which I kept laid away in a handkerchief;
Luke 19:21 for I was afraid of you, because you are what you did not deposit, and reap what you did not sow.’
Luke 19:22 He said to him, a severe man, taking what I did not deposit and reaping what I did not sow?
Luke 19:23 Why then did you not put my money in the bank, and at my coming I might have collected it with interest?’
Luke 19:24 And he said to those who stood by, ‘Take the mina from him, and give it to the one who has the ten minas.’
Luke 19:25 And they said to him, ‘Lord, he has ten minas!’
Luke 19:26 ‘I tell you that to everyone who has, more will be given, but from the one who has not, even what he has will be taken away.
Luke 19:27 But slaughter them before me.’”
Luke 19:28 And when he had said these things, going up to Jerusalem.
Luke 19:29  two of the disciples,
Luke 19:30 saying, “Go into the village in front of you, where on entering you will find a colt tied, on which no one has ever yet sat. Untie it and bring it here.
Luke 19:31 If anyone asks you, ‘Why are you untying it?’ you shall say this: ‘The Lord has need of it.’”
Luke 19:32 So those who were sent went away and found it just as he had told them.
Luke 19:33 And as they were untying the colt, its owners said to them, “Why are you untying the colt?”
Luke 19:34 And they said, “The Lord has need of it.”
Luke 19:35 And they brought it to Jesus, and throwing their cloaks on the colt, they set Jesus on it.
Luke 19:36 And as he rode along, they spread their cloaks on the road.
Luke 19:37 As he was drawing near — already on the way down the Mount of Olives — for all the mighty works that they had seen,
Luke 19:38 saying, glory in the highest!”
Luke 19:39  And some of the Pharisees in the crowd said to him, “Teacher, rebuke your disciples.”
Luke 19:40 He answered, “I tell you, if these were silent, the very stones would cry out.”
Luke 19:41  he wept over it,
Luke 19:42 saying,  they are hidden from your eyes.
Luke 19:43 For surround you and hem you in on every side
Luke 19:44  visitation.”
Luke 19:45  And he entered the temple and began to drive out those who sold,
Luke 19:46 saying to them, “It is written, you have made it a den of robbers.”
Luke 19:47  The chief priests and the scribes and the principal men of the people were seeking to destroy him,
Luke 19:48 but they did not find anything they could do, for all the people were hanging on his words.
Luke 20:1  the chief priests and the scribes with the elders came up
Luke 20:2 and said to him, “Tell us by what authority you do these things, or who it is that gave you this authority.”
Luke 20:3 He answered them, “I also will ask you a question. Now tell me,
Luke 20:4 was the baptism of John from heaven or from man?”
Luke 20:5 And they discussed it with one another, saying, “If we say, ‘From heaven,’ he will say, ‘Why did you not believe him?’
Luke 20:6 But if we say, ‘From man,’ all the people will stone us to death, for they are convinced that John was a prophet.”
Luke 20:7 So they answered that they did not know where it came from.
Luke 20:8 And Jesus said to them, “Neither will I tell you by what authority I do these things.”
Luke 20:9  went into another country for a long while.
Luke 20:10 When the time came, he sent a servant But the tenants beat him and sent him away empty-handed.
Luke 20:11  treated him shamefully, and sent him away empty-handed.
Luke 20:12  And he sent yet a third. This one also they wounded and cast out.
Luke 20:13 Then the owner of the vineyard said, ‘What shall I do? I will send my beloved son; perhaps they will respect him.’
Luke 20:14 But when the tenants saw him, they said to themselves, Let us kill him, so that the inheritance may be ours.’
Luke 20:15 And they threw him out of the vineyard and killed him. What then will the owner of the vineyard do to them?
Luke 20:16  give the vineyard to others.” When they heard this, they said, “Surely not!”
Luke 20:17 But he
Luke 20:18  on anyone, it will crush him.”
Luke 20:19  The scribes and the chief priests sought to lay hands on him at that very hour, for they perceived that he had told this parable against them, but they feared the people.
Luke 20:20  the governor.
Luke 20:21 So they asked him, “Teacher, we know that you speak and teach rightly, and the way of God.
Luke 20:22 Is it lawful for us to give Caesar, or not?”
Luke 20:23 But he perceived their craftiness, and said to them,
Luke 20:24 “Show me  Whose likeness and inscription does it have?” They said, “Caesar's.”
Luke 20:25 He said to them, “Then render to Caesar the things that are Caesar's, and to God the things that are God's.”
Luke 20:26 And they were not able in the presence of the people to catch him in what he said, but marveling at his answer they became silent.
Luke 20:27 There came to him those who deny that there is a resurrection,
Luke 20:28 and they asked him a question, saying, “Teacher, Moses wrote for us  must take the widow and raise up offspring for his brother.
Luke 20:29 Now there were seven brothers. The first took a wife, and died without children.
Luke 20:30 And the second
Luke 20:31 and the third took her, and likewise all seven left no children and died.
Luke 20:32 Afterward the woman also died.
Luke 20:33 In the resurrection, therefore, whose wife will the woman be? For the seven had her as wife.”
Luke 20:34 And Jesus said to them,  are given in marriage,
Luke 20:35 but those who are nor are given in marriage,
Luke 20:36 for  of the resurrection.
Luke 20:37 But that the dead are raised, the Lord the God of Abraham and the God of Isaac and the God of Jacob.
Luke 20:38 Now he is not God of the dead, but of the living, for all live to him.”
Luke 20:39 Then some of the scribes answered, “Teacher, you have spoken well.”
Luke 20:40 For they no longer dared to ask him any question.
Luke 20:41  David's son?
Luke 20:42 For David himself says in the Book of Psalms,  “‘The Lord said to my Lord, “Sit at my right hand,
Luke 20:43 until I make your enemies your footstool.”’
Luke 20:44 David thus calls him Lord, so how is he his son?”
Luke 20:45  And in the hearing of all the people he said to his disciples,
Luke 20:46 “Beware of the scribes, who like to walk around in long robes, and love greetings in the marketplaces and the best seats in the synagogues and the places of honor at feasts,
Luke 20:47  for a pretense make long prayers. They will receive the greater condemnation.”
Luke 21:1  the offering box,
Luke 21:2 and he saw a poor widow put in two
Luke 21:3 And he said, “Truly, I tell you, this poor widow has put in more than all of them.
Luke 21:4 For they all contributed out of their abundance, but she out of her she had to live on.”
Luke 21:5  And while some were speaking of the temple, how it was adorned with noble stones and offerings, he said,
Luke 21:6 “As for these things that you see, the days will come when there will not be left here one stone upon another that will not be thrown down.”
Luke 21:7 And they asked him, “Teacher, when will these things be, and what will be the sign when these things are about to take place?”
Luke 21:8 And he said,  ‘The time is at hand!’ Do not go after them.
Luke 21:9 And when you hear of wars and tumults, do not be must first take place, but the end will not be at once.”
Luke 21:10 Then he said to them,  kingdom against kingdom.
Luke 21:11 There will be great signs from heaven.
Luke 21:12 But before all this governors for my name's sake.
Luke 21:13  This will be your opportunity to bear witness.
Luke 21:14 Settle it therefore in your minds not to meditate beforehand how to answer,
Luke 21:15 for contradict.
Luke 21:16 You will be delivered up  and relatives and friends, and some of you they will put to death.
Luke 21:17  You will be hated by all for my name's sake.
Luke 21:18 But not a hair of your head will perish.
Luke 21:19 By your endurance you will gain your lives.
Luke 21:20 “But its desolation has come near.
Luke 21:21 Then let those who are in Judea flee to the mountains, and let those who are inside the city depart, and let not those who are out in the country enter it,
Luke 21:22 for these are all that is written.
Luke 21:23  wrath against this people.
Luke 21:24 They will fall by the edge of the sword and until the times of the Gentiles are fulfilled.
Luke 21:25 “And distress of nations in perplexity because of the roaring of the sea and the waves,
Luke 21:26 people fainting with fear and with foreboding of what is coming on the world. For the powers of the heavens will be shaken.
Luke 21:27 And then they will see with power and great glory.
Luke 21:28 Now when these things begin to take place, straighten up and your redemption is drawing near.”
Luke 21:29 And he told them a parable: “Look at the fig tree, and all the trees.
Luke 21:30 As soon as they come out in leaf, you see for yourselves and know that the summer is already near.
Luke 21:31 So also, when you see these things taking place, you know that the kingdom of God is near.
Luke 21:32  Truly, I say to you, this generation will not pass away until all has taken place.
Luke 21:33  my words will not pass away.
Luke 21:34 “But watch yourselves like a trap.
Luke 21:35 For it will come upon all who dwell on the face of the whole earth.
Luke 21:36 But to stand before the Son of Man.”
Luke 21:37 And the mount called Olivet.
Luke 21:38 And early in the morning all the people came to him in the temple to hear him.
Luke 22:1  the Passover.
Luke 22:2 And the chief priests and the scribes were seeking how to put him to death, for they feared the people.
Luke 22:3  Judas called Iscariot, who was of the number of the twelve.
Luke 22:4 He went away and conferred with the chief priests and officers how he might betray him to them.
Luke 22:5 And they were glad, and agreed to give him money.
Luke 22:6 So he consented and sought an opportunity to betray him to them in the absence of a crowd.
Luke 22:7  the day of Unleavened Bread, on which the Passover lamb had to be sacrificed.
Luke 22:8 So Jesus  sent Peter and John, saying, “Go and prepare the Passover for us, that we may eat it.”
Luke 22:9 They said to him, “Where will you have us prepare it?”
Luke 22:10 He said to them, “Behold, when you have entered the city, a man carrying a jar of water will meet you. Follow him into the house that he enters
Luke 22:11 and tell the master of the house, the guest room, where I may eat the Passover with my disciples?’
Luke 22:12 And he will show you a large upper room furnished; prepare it there.”
Luke 22:13 And they went and found it just as he had told them, and they prepared the Passover.
Luke 22:14  And when the hour came, he reclined at table, and the apostles with him.
Luke 22:15 And he said to them, “I have earnestly desired to eat this Passover with you before I suffer.
Luke 22:16 For I tell you I will not eat it until it is fulfilled in the kingdom of God.”
Luke 22:17 And he took a cup, and when he had given thanks he said, “Take this, and divide it among yourselves.
Luke 22:18  until the kingdom of God comes.”
Luke 22:19  “This is my body, which is given for you. Do this in remembrance of me.”
Luke 22:20 And likewise the cup after they had eaten, saying,
Luke 22:21  with me on the table.
Luke 22:22 For the Son of Man goes as it has been determined, but woe to that man by whom he is betrayed!”
Luke 22:23 And they began to question one another, which of them it could be who was going to do this.
Luke 22:24  A dispute also arose among them, as to which of them was to be regarded as the greatest.
Luke 22:25  exercise lordship over them, and those in authority over them are called benefactors.
Luke 22:26  the greatest among you become as the youngest, and the leader as one who serves.
Luke 22:27 For who is the greater, I am among you as the one who serves.
Luke 22:28 “You are those who have stayed with me in my trials,
Luke 22:29 and I assign to you, as my Father assigned to me, a kingdom,
Luke 22:30  the twelve tribes of Israel.
Luke 22:31 “Simon, Simon, behold, that he might sift you like wheat,
Luke 22:32 but strengthen your brothers.”
Luke 22:33 Peter to death.”
Luke 22:34   said, “I tell you, Peter, the rooster will not crow this day, until you deny three times that you know me.”
Luke 22:35 And he said to them,  “When I sent you out with no moneybag or knapsack or sandals, did you lack anything?” They said, “Nothing.”
Luke 22:36 He said to them, “But now let the one who has a moneybag take it, and likewise a knapsack. And let the one who has no sword sell his cloak and buy one.
Luke 22:37 For I tell you that what is written about me has its fulfillment.”
Luke 22:38 And they said, “Look, Lord, here are two “It is enough.”
Luke 22:39  the Mount of Olives, and the disciples followed him.
Luke 22:40  enter into temptation.”
Luke 22:41 And he withdrew from them about a stone's throw, and knelt down and prayed,
Luke 22:42 saying,  Nevertheless, not my will, but yours, be done.”
Luke 22:43 And there appeared to him an angel from heaven, strengthening him.
Luke 22:44 And
Luke 22:45 And when he rose from prayer, he came to the disciples and found them sleeping for sorrow,
Luke 22:46 and he said to them, “Why are you sleeping? Rise and pray that you may not enter into temptation.”
Luke 22:47  Judas, one of the twelve, was leading them. He drew near to Jesus to kiss him,
Luke 22:48 but Jesus said to him, “Judas, would you betray the Son of Man with a kiss?”
Luke 22:49 And when those who were around him saw what would follow, they said, “Lord, shall we strike with the sword?”
Luke 22:50 And one of them struck the servant  of the high priest and cut off his right ear.
Luke 22:51 But Jesus said, “No more of this!” And he touched his ear and healed him.
Luke 22:52 Then Jesus said to the chief priests and officers of the temple and elders, who had come out against him, “Have you come out as against a robber, with swords and clubs?
Luke 22:53 When the power of darkness.”
Luke 22:54  and Peter was following at a distance.
Luke 22:55  the courtyard and sat down together, Peter sat down among them.
Luke 22:56 Then a servant girl, seeing him as he sat in the light and looking closely at him, said, “This man also was with him.”
Luke 22:57 But he denied it, saying, “Woman, I do not know him.”
Luke 22:58 And a little later someone else saw him and said, “You also are one of them.” But Peter said, “Man, I am not.”
Luke 22:59 And after an interval of about an hour still another insisted, saying, “Certainly this man also was with him, for he too is a Galilean.”
Luke 22:60 But Peter said, “Man, I do not know what you are talking about.” And immediately, while he was still speaking, the rooster crowed.
Luke 22:61 And the Lord turned and deny me three times.”
Luke 22:62 And he went out and wept bitterly.
Luke 22:63  Now the men who were holding Jesus in custody were mocking him as they beat him.
Luke 22:64  Who is it that struck you?”
Luke 22:65 And they said many other things against him, blaspheming him.
Luke 22:66  said,
Luke 22:67  the Christ, tell us.” But he said to them, “If I tell you, you will not believe,
Luke 22:68 and if I ask you, you will not answer.
Luke 22:69 But from now on the Son of Man shall be seated at the right hand of the power of God.”
Luke 22:70 So they all said, “Are you “You say that I am.”
Luke 22:71 Then they said, “What further testimony do we need? We have heard it ourselves from his own lips.”
Luke 23:1  Then the whole company of them arose and brought him before Pilate.
Luke 23:2 And they began to accuse him, saying, “We found this man a king.”
Luke 23:3  “You have said so.”
Luke 23:4 Then Pilate said to the chief priests and the crowds, “I find no guilt in this man.”
Luke 23:5 But they were urgent, saying, “He stirs up the people, teaching throughout all Judea, from Galilee even to this place.”
Luke 23:6 When Pilate heard this, he asked whether the man was a Galilean.
Luke 23:7 And when he learned that he belonged to Herod's jurisdiction, he sent him over to Herod, who was himself in Jerusalem at that time.
Luke 23:8 When Herod saw Jesus, he was very glad, to see some sign done by him.
Luke 23:9 So he questioned him at some length, but he made no answer.
Luke 23:10 The chief priests and the scribes stood by, vehemently accusing him.
Luke 23:11 And Herod with his soldiers arraying him in splendid clothing, he sent him back to Pilate.
Luke 23:12 And Herod and Pilate became friends with each other that very day, for before this they had been at enmity with each other.
Luke 23:13 Pilate then called together the chief priests and the rulers and the people,
Luke 23:14 and said to them, “You brought me this man did not find this man guilty of any of your charges against him.
Luke 23:15 Neither did Herod, for he sent him back to us. Look, nothing deserving death has been done by him.
Luke 23:16
Luke 23:17
Luke 23:18  “Away with this man, and release to us Barabbas” —
Luke 23:19 a man who had been thrown into prison for an insurrection started in the city and for murder.
Luke 23:20 Pilate addressed them once more, desiring to release Jesus,
Luke 23:21 but they kept shouting, “Crucify, crucify him!”
Luke 23:22 A third time he said to them, “Why? I will therefore punish and release him.”
Luke 23:23 But they were urgent, demanding with loud cries that he should be crucified. And their voices prevailed.
Luke 23:24 So Pilate decided that their demand should be granted.
Luke 23:25 He released the man who had been thrown into prison but he delivered Jesus over to their will.
Luke 23:26  And as they led him away, they seized one Simon of Cyrene, who was coming in from the country, and laid on him the cross, to carry it behind Jesus.
Luke 23:27 And there followed him a great multitude of the people and of women who were mourning and lamenting for him.
Luke 23:28 But turning to them Jesus said, “Daughters of Jerusalem, do not weep for me, but weep for yourselves and for your children.
Luke 23:29 For behold, ‘Blessed are the barren and the wombs that never bore and the breasts that never nursed!’
Luke 23:30  Then they will begin to say to the mountains, ‘Fall on us,’ and to the hills, ‘Cover us.’
Luke 23:31 For when it is dry?”
Luke 23:32  Two others, who were criminals, were led away to be put to death with him.
Luke 23:33  one on his right and one on his left.
Luke 23:34 And Jesus said, “Father, to divide his garments.
Luke 23:35 And his Chosen One!”
Luke 23:36 The soldiers also mocked him, coming up and offering him sour wine
Luke 23:37 and saying, the King of the Jews, save yourself!”
Luke 23:38  the King of the Jews.”
Luke 23:39  the Christ? Save yourself and us!”
Luke 23:40 But the other rebuked him, saying, “Do you not fear God, since you are under the same sentence of condemnation?
Luke 23:41 And we indeed justly, for we are receiving the due reward of our deeds; but this man has done nothing wrong.”
Luke 23:42 And he said, “Jesus, remember me when you come into your kingdom.”
Luke 23:43 And he said to him, “Truly, I say to you, today you will be with me in paradise.”
Luke 23:44
Luke 23:45 while the sun's light failed. And the curtain of the temple was torn in two.
Luke 23:46 Then Jesus, he breathed his last.
Luke 23:47 Now he praised God, saying, “Certainly this man was innocent!”
Luke 23:48 And all the crowds that had assembled for this spectacle, when they saw what had taken place, returned home beating their breasts.
Luke 23:49 And all stood at a distance watching these things.
Luke 23:50  Now there was a man named Joseph, from the Jewish town of Arimathea. He was a member of the council, a good and righteous man,
Luke 23:51 who had not consented to their decision and action; and he was looking for the kingdom of God.
Luke 23:52 This man went to Pilate and asked for the body of Jesus.
Luke 23:53 Then he took it down and wrapped it in a linen shroud and where no one had ever yet been laid.
Luke 23:54 It was the day of
Luke 23:55  who had come with him from Galilee followed and saw the tomb and how his body was laid.
Luke 23:56 Then they returned and according to the commandment.
Luke 24:1  taking the spices they had prepared.
Luke 24:2 And they found the stone rolled away from the tomb,
Luke 24:3 but when they went in they did not find the body of the Lord Jesus.
Luke 24:4 While they were perplexed about this, behold, men stood by them in dazzling apparel.
Luke 24:5 And as they were frightened and bowed their faces to the ground, the men said to them, “Why do you seek the living among the dead?
Luke 24:6 He is not here, but has risen. Remember how he told you, while he was still in Galilee,
Luke 24:7  the third day rise.”
Luke 24:8 And they remembered his words,
Luke 24:9 and returning from the tomb they told all these things to the eleven and to all the rest.
Luke 24:10 Now it was Joanna and Mary the mother of James and the other women with them who told these things to the apostles,
Luke 24:11 but these words seemed to them an idle tale, and they did not believe them.
Luke 24:12 But the linen cloths by themselves; and he went home marveling at what had happened.
Luke 24:13 That very day  from Jerusalem,
Luke 24:14 and they were talking with each other about all these things that had happened.
Luke 24:15 While they were talking and discussing together, Jesus himself drew near and went with them.
Luke 24:16  But their eyes were kept from recognizing him.
Luke 24:17 And he said to them, “What is this conversation that you are holding with each other as you walk?” And they stood still, looking sad.
Luke 24:18 Then one of them, named Cleopas, answered him, “Are you the only visitor to Jerusalem who does not know the things that have happened there in these days?”
Luke 24:19 And he said to them, “What things?” And they said to him, “Concerning Jesus of Nazareth, a man who was mighty in deed and word before God and all the people,
Luke 24:20 and rulers delivered him up to be condemned to death, and crucified him.
Luke 24:21 But we had hoped that he was the third day since these things happened.
Luke 24:22 Moreover, some women of our company amazed us. They were at the tomb early in the morning,
Luke 24:23 and they had even seen a vision of angels, who said that he was alive.
Luke 24:24  Some of those who were with us went to the tomb and found it just as the women had said, but him they did not see.”
Luke 24:25 And he said to them, “O foolish ones, and slow of heart to believe all that the prophets have spoken!
Luke 24:26  his glory?”
Luke 24:27 And all the Prophets, he interpreted to them in all the Scriptures the things concerning himself.
Luke 24:28 So they drew near to the village to which they were going. He acted as if he were going farther,
Luke 24:29 but they urged him strongly, saying, “Stay with us, for it is toward evening and the day is now far spent.” So he went in to stay with them.
Luke 24:30 When he was at table with them, he took the bread and blessed and broke it and gave it to them.
Luke 24:31  he vanished from their sight.
Luke 24:32 They said to each other, opened to us the Scriptures?”
Luke 24:33 And they rose that same hour and returned to Jerusalem. And they those who were with them gathered together,
Luke 24:34 saying, “The Lord has risen indeed, and has appeared to Simon!”
Luke 24:35 Then they told what had happened on the road, and the breaking of the bread.
Luke 24:36 As they were talking about these things, Jesus himself stood among them, and said to them, “Peace to you!”
Luke 24:37 But they were thought they saw a spirit.
Luke 24:38 And he said to them, “Why are you troubled, and why do doubts arise in your hearts?
Luke 24:39 See my hands and my feet, that it is I myself. Touch me, and see. For a spirit does not have flesh and bones as you see that I have.”
Luke 24:40 And when he had said this, he showed them his hands and his feet.
Luke 24:41 And while they still disbelieved he said to them, “Have you anything here to eat?”
Luke 24:42 They gave him a piece of broiled fish,
Luke 24:43 and he took it and ate before them.
Luke 24:44 Then he said to them,  that everything written about me in the Law of Moses and the Prophets and the Psalms must be fulfilled.”
Luke 24:45 Then he opened their minds to understand the Scriptures,
Luke 24:46 and said to them, “Thus rise from the dead,
Luke 24:47 and that beginning from Jerusalem.
Luke 24:48  You are witnesses of these things.
Luke 24:49 And behold, I am sending from on high.”
Luke 24:50 And Bethany, and lifting up his hands he blessed them.
Luke 24:51 While he blessed them, he parted from them and was carried up into heaven.
Luke 24:52 And they with great joy,
Luke 24:53 and blessing God.
John 1:1  the Word was God.
John 1:2 He was in the beginning with God.
John 1:3  All things were made through him, and without him was not any thing made that was made.
John 1:4  the life was the light of men.
John 1:5  The light shines in the darkness, and the darkness has not overcome it.
John 1:6 There was a man John.
John 1:7 He came as a that all might believe through him.
John 1:8  He was not the light, but came to bear witness about the light.
John 1:9  The true light, which gives light to everyone, was coming into the world.
John 1:10 He was in the world, and the world was made through him, yet the world did not know him.
John 1:11 He came to did not receive him.
John 1:12 But to all who did receive him, children of God,
John 1:13 who nor of the will of the flesh nor of the will of man, but of God.
John 1:14 And truth.
John 1:15 ( ‘He who comes after me ranks before me, because he was before me.’”)
John 1:16 For from
John 1:17 For grace and truth came through Jesus Christ.
John 1:18  he has made him known.
John 1:19 And this is the “Who are you?”
John 1:20  He confessed, and did not deny, but confessed, “I am not the Christ.”
John 1:21 And they asked him, “What then? the Prophet?” And he answered, “No.”
John 1:22 So they said to him, “Who are you? We need to give an answer to those who sent us. What do you say about yourself?”
John 1:23 He said, “I am  the way of the Lord,’ as the prophet Isaiah said.”
John 1:24 (Now they had been sent from the Pharisees.)
John 1:25 They asked him, “Then why are you baptizing, if you are neither the Christ, nor Elijah, nor the Prophet?”
John 1:26 John answered them, “I baptize with water, but among you stands one you do not know,
John 1:27 even he who comes after me, the strap of whose sandal I am not worthy to untie.”
John 1:28 These things took place in Bethany across the Jordan, where John was baptizing.
John 1:29 The next day he saw Jesus coming toward him, and said, “Behold, of the world!
John 1:30 This is he of whom I said, ‘After me comes a man who ranks before me, because he was before me.’
John 1:31 I myself did not know him, but for this purpose I came baptizing with water, that he might be revealed to Israel.”
John 1:32 And John it remained on him.
John 1:33 I myself did not know him, but with the Holy Spirit.’
John 1:34 And I have seen and have borne witness that this is the Son  of God.”
John 1:35 The next day again John was standing with two of his disciples,
John 1:36 and he looked at Jesus as he walked by and said, “Behold, the Lamb of God!”
John 1:37 The two disciples heard him say this, and they followed Jesus.
John 1:38 Jesus turned and saw them following and said to them,  “Rabbi” (which means Teacher), “where are you staying?”
John 1:39 He said to them, “Come and you will see.” So they came and saw where he was staying, and they stayed with him that day, for it was about the tenth hour.
John 1:40   was Andrew, Simon Peter's brother.
John 1:41 He first found his own brother Simon and said to him, “We have found the Messiah” (which means Christ).
John 1:42 He brought him to Jesus. Jesus looked at him and said, “You are Simon the son of ).
John 1:43  to go to Galilee. He found Philip and said to him, “Follow me.”
John 1:44 Now Philip was from Bethsaida, the city of Andrew and Peter.
John 1:45 Philip found the son of Joseph.”
John 1:46 Nathanael said to him, “Can anything good come out of Nazareth?” Philip said to him, “Come and see.”
John 1:47 Jesus saw Nathanael coming toward him and said of him, “Behold, in whom there is no deceit!”
John 1:48 Nathanael said to him, “How do you know me?” Jesus answered him, “Before Philip called you, when you were under the fig tree, I saw you.”
John 1:49 Nathanael answered him, King of Israel!”
John 1:50 Jesus answered him, “Because I said to you, ‘I saw you under the fig tree,’ do you believe? You will see greater things than these.”
John 1:51 And he said to him, “Truly, truly, I say to you, the Son of Man.”
John 2:1 On Cana in Galilee, and the mother of Jesus was there.
John 2:2 Jesus also was invited to the wedding with his disciples.
John 2:3 When the wine ran out, the mother of Jesus said to him, “They have no wine.”
John 2:4 And Jesus said to her,  My hour has not yet come.”
John 2:5 His mother said to the servants, “Do whatever he tells you.”
John 2:6 Now there were six stone water jars there
John 2:7 Jesus said to the servants, “Fill the jars with water.” And they filled them up to the brim.
John 2:8 And he said to them, “Now draw some out and take it to the master of the feast.” So they took it.
John 2:9 When the master of the feast tasted the water now become wine, and did not know where it came from (though the servants who had drawn the water knew), the master of the feast called the bridegroom
John 2:10 and said to him, “Everyone serves the good wine first, and when people have drunk freely, then the poor wine. But you have kept the good wine until now.”
John 2:11 This, the first of his signs, Jesus did at Cana in Galilee, and manifested his disciples believed in him.
John 2:12 After this he went down to Capernaum, with his mother and  and his disciples, and they stayed there for a few days.
John 2:13  went up to Jerusalem.
John 2:14  In the temple he found those who were selling oxen and sheep and pigeons, and the money-changers sitting there.
John 2:15 And making a whip of cords, he drove them all out of the temple, with the sheep and oxen. And he poured out the coins of the money-changers and overturned their tables.
John 2:16 And he told those who sold the pigeons, “Take these things away; do not make my Father's house a house of trade.”
John 2:17 His disciples remembered that it was written, “Zeal for your house will consume me.”
John 2:18 So the Jews said to him, “What sign do you show us for doing these things?”
John 2:19 Jesus answered them,  I will raise it up.”
John 2:20 The Jews then said, “It has taken forty-six years to build this temple,  and will you raise it up in three days?”
John 2:21 But he was speaking about the temple of his body.
John 2:22 When therefore he was raised from the dead, the Scripture and the word that Jesus had spoken.
John 2:23 Now when he was in Jerusalem at the Passover Feast, many believed in his name when they saw the signs that he was doing.
John 2:24 But Jesus he knew all people
John 2:25 and needed no one to bear witness about man, for he himself knew what was in man.
John 3:1 Now there was a man of the Pharisees named a ruler of the Jews.
John 3:2 This man came to Jesus unless God is with him.”
John 3:3 Jesus answered him, “Truly, truly, I say to you, unless one is see the kingdom of God.”
John 3:4 Nicodemus said to him, “How can a man be born when he is old? Can he enter a second time into his mother's womb and be born?”
John 3:5 Jesus answered, “Truly, truly, I say to you, unless one is born of water and the Spirit, he cannot enter the kingdom of God.
John 3:6
John 3:7  again.’
John 3:8  where it wishes, and you hear its sound, but you do not know where it comes from or where it goes. So it is with everyone who is born of the Spirit.”
John 3:9 Nicodemus said to him, “How can these things be?”
John 3:10 Jesus answered him, “Are you the teacher of Israel and yet you do not understand these things?
John 3:11 Truly, truly, I say to you,  do not receive our testimony.
John 3:12 If I have told you earthly things and you do not believe, how can you believe if I tell you heavenly things?
John 3:13
John 3:14 And be lifted up,
John 3:15 that whoever believes
John 3:16 “For perish but have eternal life.
John 3:17 For to condemn the world, but in order that the world might be saved through him.
John 3:18  believed in the name of the only Son of God.
John 3:19  their works were evil.
John 3:20  lest his works should be exposed.
John 3:21 But whoever comes to the light, so that it may be clearly seen that his works have been carried out in God.”
John 3:22 After this Jesus and his disciples went into the Judean countryside, and he remained there with them and was baptizing.
John 3:23 John also was baptizing at Aenon near Salim, because water was plentiful there, and people were coming and being baptized
John 3:24 (for John had not yet been put in prison).
John 3:25 Now a discussion arose between some of John's disciples and a Jew over purification.
John 3:26 And they came to John and said to him, all are going to him.”
John 3:27 John answered, from heaven.
John 3:28 You yourselves bear me witness, that I said, I have been sent before him.’
John 3:29  rejoices greatly at the bridegroom's voice. Therefore this joy of mine is now complete.
John 3:30
John 3:31  is above all.
John 3:32  yet no one receives his testimony.
John 3:33 Whoever receives his testimony that God is true.
John 3:34 For he whom without measure.
John 3:35  has given all things into his hand.
John 3:36  see life, but the wrath of God remains on him.
John 4:1 Now when Jesus learned that the Pharisees had heard that Jesus was making and baptizing more disciples than John
John 4:2 (although Jesus himself did not baptize, but only his disciples),
John 4:3 he left Judea and departed again for Galilee.
John 4:4  And he had to pass through Samaria.
John 4:5 So he came to a town of Samaria called Sychar, near the field that Jacob had given to his son Joseph.
John 4:6 Jacob's well was there; so Jesus,
John 4:7 A woman from Samaria came to draw water. Jesus said to her,  “Give me a drink.”
John 4:8 (For his disciples had gone away into the city to buy food.)
John 4:9 The Samaritan woman said to him, “How is it that you, a Jew, ask for a drink from me, a woman of Samaria?” (For Jews have no dealings with Samaritans.)
John 4:10 Jesus answered her, “If you knew the gift of God, and who it is that is saying to you, ‘Give me a drink,’ you would have asked him, and he would have given you living water.”
John 4:11 The woman said to him, “Sir, you have nothing to draw water with, and the well is deep. Where do you get that living water?
John 4:12  He gave us the well and drank from it himself, as did his sons and his livestock.”
John 4:13 Jesus said to her, “Everyone who drinks of this water will be thirsty again,
John 4:14 but in him a spring of water welling up to eternal life.”
John 4:15 The woman said to him, “Sir, give me this water, so that I will not be thirsty or have to come here to draw water.”
John 4:16 Jesus said to her, “Go, call your husband, and come here.”
John 4:17 The woman answered him, “I have no husband.” Jesus said to her, “You are right in saying, ‘I have no husband’;
John 4:18 for you have had five husbands, and the one you now have is not your husband. What you have said is true.”
John 4:19 The woman said to him, “Sir, I perceive that a prophet.
John 4:20  the place where people ought to worship.”
John 4:21 Jesus said to her,  neither on this mountain nor in Jerusalem will you worship the Father.
John 4:22  from the Jews.
John 4:23 But is seeking such people to worship him.
John 4:24 God is spirit, and those who worship him must worship in spirit and truth.”
John 4:25 The woman said to him, “I know that he will tell us all things.”
John 4:26 Jesus said to her,  “I who speak to you am he.”
John 4:27 Just then his disciples came back. They marveled that he was talking with a woman, but no one said, “What do you seek?” or, “Why are you talking with her?”
John 4:28 So the woman left her water jar and went away into town and said to the people,
John 4:29 “Come, see a man who told me all that I ever did. Can this be the Christ?”
John 4:30 They went out of the town and were coming to him.
John 4:31 Meanwhile the disciples were urging him, saying, “Rabbi, eat.”
John 4:32 But he said to them, “I have food to eat that you do not know about.”
John 4:33 So the disciples said to one another, “Has anyone brought him something to eat?”
John 4:34 Jesus said to them,  to accomplish his work.
John 4:35 Do you not say, ‘There are yet four months, then comes the harvest’? Look, I tell you, lift up your eyes, and see that the fields are white for harvest.
John 4:36 Already the one who reaps is receiving wages and gathering fruit for eternal life, so that may rejoice together.
John 4:37 For here the saying holds true, ‘One sows and another reaps.’
John 4:38 I sent you to reap and you have entered into their labor.”
John 4:39 Many Samaritans the woman's testimony, “He told me all that I ever did.”
John 4:40 So when the Samaritans came to him, they asked him to stay with them, and he stayed there two days.
John 4:41 And many more believed because of his word.
John 4:42 They said to the woman, “It is no longer because of what you said that we believe, for we have heard for ourselves, of the world.”
John 4:43 After the two days he departed for Galilee.
John 4:44 (For Jesus himself had testified that a prophet has no honor in his own hometown.)
John 4:45 So when he came to Galilee, the Galileans welcomed him, they too had gone to the feast.
John 4:46 So he came again to where he had made the water wine. And at Capernaum there was an official whose son was ill.
John 4:47 When this man heard that Jesus had come from Judea to Galilee, he went to him and asked him to come down and heal his son, for he was at the point of death.
John 4:48 So Jesus said to him,   see signs and wonders you will not believe.”
John 4:49 The official said to him, “Sir, come down before my child dies.”
John 4:50 Jesus said to him, “Go; your son will live.” The man believed the word that Jesus spoke to him and went on his way.
John 4:51 As he was going down, his servants  met him and told him that his son was recovering.
John 4:52 So he asked them the hour when he began to get better, and they said to him, “Yesterday at the seventh hour  the fever left him.”
John 4:53 The father knew that was the hour when Jesus had said to him, “Your son will live.” And he himself believed, and all his household.
John 4:54  This was now the second sign that Jesus did when he had come from Judea to Galilee.
John 5:1 After this there was a feast of the Jews, and Jesus went up to Jerusalem.
John 5:2 Now there is in Jerusalem by  which has five roofed colonnades.
John 5:3 In these lay a multitude of invalids — blind, lame, and
John 5:4
John 5:5 One man was there who had been an invalid for thirty-eight years.
John 5:6 When Jesus saw him lying there and knew that he had already been there a long time, he said to him, “Do you want to be healed?”
John 5:7 The sick man answered him, “Sir, I have no one to put me into the pool when the water is stirred up, and while I am going another steps down before me.”
John 5:8 Jesus said to him,  “Get up, take up your bed, and walk.”
John 5:9 Now that day was the Sabbath.
John 5:10 So the Jews it is not lawful for you to take up your bed.”
John 5:11 But he answered them, “The man who healed me, that man said to me, ‘Take up your bed, and walk.’”
John 5:12 They asked him, “Who is the man who said to you, ‘Take up your bed and walk’?”
John 5:13 Now the man who had been healed did not know who it was, for Jesus had withdrawn, as there was a crowd in the place.
John 5:14 Afterward Jesus found him in the temple and said to him, “See, you are well! that nothing worse may happen to you.”
John 5:15 The man went away and told the Jews that it was Jesus who had healed him.
John 5:16 And this was why the Jews because he was doing these things on the Sabbath.
John 5:17 But Jesus answered them, “My Father is working until now, and I am working.”
John 5:18 This was why the Jews making himself equal with God.
John 5:19 So Jesus said to them, “Truly, truly, I say to you,  does, that the Son does likewise.
John 5:20 For you may marvel.
John 5:21 For as the Father to whom he will.
John 5:22  has given all judgment to the Son,
John 5:23 that all may honor the Son, just as they Whoever does not honor the Son does not honor the Father who sent him.
John 5:24 Truly, truly, I say to you, has passed from death to life.
John 5:25 “Truly, truly, I say to you, will live.
John 5:26  so he has granted the Son also to have life in himself.
John 5:27 And he has given him authority to execute judgment, because he is the Son of Man.
John 5:28 Do not marvel at this, for all who are in the tombs will hear his voice
John 5:29 and come out, those who have done good to the resurrection of life, and those who have done evil to the resurrection of judgment.
John 5:30  but the will of him who sent me.
John 5:31  If I alone bear witness about myself, my testimony is not true.
John 5:32 There is I know that the testimony that he bears about me is true.
John 5:33  You sent to John, and he has borne witness to the truth.
John 5:34 Not that the testimony that I receive is from man, but I say these things so that you may be saved.
John 5:35 He was a burning and you were willing to rejoice for a while in his light.
John 5:36 But the Father has sent me.
John 5:37 And the Father who sent me his form you have never seen,
John 5:38 and you do not have his word abiding in you, for you do not believe the one whom he has sent.
John 5:39  it is they that bear witness about me,
John 5:40 yet you refuse to come to me that you may have life.
John 5:41  I do not receive glory from people.
John 5:42 But the love of God within you.
John 5:43 I have come If another comes in his own name, you will receive him.
John 5:44 How can you believe, when you receive glory from one another and the only God?
John 5:45 Do not think that I will accuse you to the Father. There is one who accuses you: Moses, on whom you have set your hope.
John 5:46 For if you believed Moses, you would believe me; for he wrote of me.
John 5:47 But if you do not believe his writings, how will you believe my words?”
John 6:1 After this the Sea of Tiberias.
John 6:2 And a large crowd was following him, because they saw the signs that he was doing on the sick.
John 6:3 Jesus went up on the mountain, and there he sat down with his disciples.
John 6:4 Now feast of the Jews, was at hand.
John 6:5  Philip, “Where are we to buy bread, so that these people may eat?”
John 6:6 He said this to test him, for he himself knew what he would do.
John 6:7   worth of bread would not be enough for each of them to get a little.”
John 6:8 One of his disciples, Andrew, Simon Peter's brother, said to him,
John 6:9 “There is a boy here who has five what are they for so many?”
John 6:10 Jesus said, “Have the people sit down.” Now there was much grass in the place. So the men sat down, about five thousand in number.
John 6:11 Jesus then took the loaves, and when he had given thanks, he distributed them to those who were seated. So also the fish, as much as they wanted.
John 6:12 And when they had eaten their fill, he told his disciples, “Gather up the leftover fragments, that nothing may be lost.”
John 6:13 So they gathered them up and filled twelve baskets with fragments from the five barley loaves left by those who had eaten.
John 6:14 When the people saw the sign that he had done, they said, who is to come into the world!”
John 6:15  the mountain by himself.
John 6:16 When evening came, his disciples went down to the sea,
John 6:17 got into a boat, and started across the sea to Capernaum. It was now dark, and Jesus had not yet come to them.
John 6:18 The sea became rough because a strong wind was blowing.
John 6:19 When they had rowed about three or four miles,  they saw Jesus walking on the sea and coming near the boat, and they were frightened.
John 6:20  But he said to them, “It is I; do not be afraid.”
John 6:21 Then they were glad to take him into the boat, and immediately the boat was at the land to which they were going.
John 6:22 On the next day the crowd that remained on the other side of the sea saw that there had been only one boat there, and that Jesus had not entered the boat with his disciples, but that his disciples had gone away alone.
John 6:23 Other boats from Tiberias came near the place where they had eaten the bread after the Lord had given thanks.
John 6:24  went to Capernaum, seeking Jesus.
John 6:25 When they found him on the other side of the sea, they said to him, “Rabbi, when did you come here?”
John 6:26 Jesus answered them, “Truly, truly, I say to you, signs, but because you ate your fill of the loaves.
John 6:27  set his seal.”
John 6:28 Then they said to him, “What must we do, to be doing the works of God?”
John 6:29 Jesus answered them, “This is the work of God, he has sent.”
John 6:30 So they said to him, “Then what sign do you do, that we may see and believe you? What work do you perform?
John 6:31  ‘He gave them bread from heaven to eat.’”
John 6:32 Jesus then said to them, “Truly, truly, I say to you, it was not Moses who gave you the bread from heaven, but my Father gives you the true bread from heaven.
John 6:33 For the bread of God is he who comes down from heaven and gives life to the world.”
John 6:34 They said to him, “Sir, give us this bread always.”
John 6:35 Jesus said to them,  whoever comes to me shall not hunger, and whoever believes in me shall never thirst.
John 6:36 But I said to you that you have seen me and yet do not believe.
John 6:37  whoever comes to me I will never cast out.
John 6:38 For who sent me.
John 6:39 And raise it up on the last day.
John 6:40 For this is the will of my Father, that everyone who should have eternal life, and I will raise him up on the last day.”
John 6:41 So the Jews grumbled about him, because he said,  “I am the bread that came down from heaven.”
John 6:42 They said, we know? How does he now say, ‘I have come down from heaven’?”
John 6:43 Jesus answered them, “Do not grumble among yourselves.
John 6:44 No one can come to me unless the Father who sent me I will raise him up on the last day.
John 6:45 It is written in the Prophets, Everyone who has heard and learned from the Father comes to me —
John 6:46  has seen the Father.
John 6:47 Truly, truly, I say to you, whoever believes has eternal life.
John 6:48  I am the bread of life.
John 6:49  they died.
John 6:50  and not die.
John 6:51 I am the living bread my flesh.”
John 6:52 The Jews then “How can this man give us his flesh to eat?”
John 6:53 So Jesus said to them, “Truly, truly, I say to you, unless you eat the flesh of have no life in you.
John 6:54 Whoever feeds on my flesh and drinks my blood I will raise him up on the last day.
John 6:55 For my flesh is true food, and my blood is true drink.
John 6:56 Whoever feeds on my flesh and drinks my blood abides in me, and I in him.
John 6:57 As I live because of the Father, so whoever feeds on me, he also will live because of me.
John 6:58   the fathers ate, and died. Whoever feeds on this bread will live forever.”
John 6:59 Jesus at Capernaum.
John 6:60  When many of his disciples heard it, they said, “This is a hard saying; who can listen to it?”
John 6:61 But Jesus, knowing in himself that his disciples were grumbling about this, said to them, “Do you take offense at this?
John 6:62 Then what if you were to see where he was before?
John 6:63  The words that I have spoken to you are spirit and life.
John 6:64 But who it was who would betray him.)
John 6:65 And he said, “This is why I told you that no one can come to me unless it is granted him by the Father.”
John 6:66  After this many of his disciples turned back and no longer walked with him.
John 6:67 So Jesus said to the twelve, “Do you want to go away as well?”
John 6:68 Simon Peter answered him, “Lord, to whom shall we go? You have the words of eternal life,
John 6:69 and the Holy One of God.”
John 6:70 Jesus answered them,  a devil.”
John 6:71 He spoke of Judas he, one of the twelve, was going to betray him.
John 7:1 After this Jesus went about in Galilee. He would not go about in Judea, because  were seeking to kill him.
John 7:2 Now Booths was at hand.
John 7:3   said to him, “Leave here and go to Judea, that your disciples also may see the works you are doing.
John 7:4 For no one works in secret if he seeks to be known openly. If you do these things, show yourself to the world.”
John 7:5  his brothers believed in him.
John 7:6 Jesus said to them,  “My time has not yet come, but your time is always here.
John 7:7 The world cannot hate you, but its works are evil.
John 7:8 You go up to the feast. I am not my time has not yet fully come.”
John 7:9 After saying this, he remained in Galilee.
John 7:10 But after his brothers had gone up to the feast, then he also went up, not publicly but in private.
John 7:11  were looking for him at the feast, and saying, “Where is he?”
John 7:12 And there was much he is leading the people astray.”
John 7:13 Yet for fear of the Jews no one spoke openly of him.
John 7:14 About the middle of the feast Jesus went up into the temple and began teaching.
John 7:15 The Jews therefore  when he has never studied?”
John 7:16 So Jesus answered them,  who sent me.
John 7:17  am speaking on my own authority.
John 7:18 The one who speaks on his own authority seeks his own glory; but the one who seeks the glory of him who sent him is true, and in him there is no falsehood.
John 7:19  Why do you seek to kill me?”
John 7:20 The crowd answered, “You have a demon! Who is seeking to kill you?”
John 7:21 Jesus answered them, “I did one work, and you all marvel at it.
John 7:22  from the fathers), and you circumcise a man on the Sabbath.
John 7:23 If on the Sabbath a man receives circumcision, so that the law of Moses may not be broken, are you angry with me because on the Sabbath I made a man's whole body well?
John 7:24  Do not judge by appearances, but judge with right judgment.”
John 7:25 Some of the people of Jerusalem therefore said, “Is not this the man whom they seek to kill?
John 7:26 And here he is, the authorities really know that this is the Christ?
John 7:27 But no one will know where he comes from.”
John 7:28 So Jesus proclaimed, and him you do not know.
John 7:29  he sent me.”
John 7:30  because his hour had not yet come.
John 7:31 Yet “When the Christ appears, will he do more signs than this man has done?”
John 7:32 The Pharisees heard the crowd officers to arrest him.
John 7:33 Jesus then said,  I am going to him who sent me.
John 7:34  You will seek me and you will not find me. Where I am you cannot come.”
John 7:35 The Jews said to one another, “Where does this man intend to go that we will not find him? the Greeks and teach the Greeks?
John 7:36 What does he mean by saying,  ‘You will seek me and you will not find me,’ and, ‘Where I am you cannot come’?”
John 7:37  come to me and drink.
John 7:38 Whoever believes in me, living water.’”
John 7:39 Now because Jesus was not yet glorified.
John 7:40 When they heard these words, the Prophet.”
John 7:41 Others said, “This is “Is the Christ to come from Galilee?
John 7:42 Has not the Scripture said that the Christ comes where David was?”
John 7:43 So there was a division among the people over him.
John 7:44  Some of them wanted to arrest him, but no one laid hands on him.
John 7:45  The officers then came to the chief priests and Pharisees, who said to them, “Why did you not bring him?”
John 7:46 The officers answered, “No one ever spoke like this man!”
John 7:47 The Pharisees answered them, “Have you also been deceived?
John 7:48  Have any of the authorities or the Pharisees believed in him?
John 7:49 But this crowd that does not know the law is accursed.”
John 7:50  Nicodemus, who had gone to him before, and who was one of them, said to them,
John 7:51  giving him a hearing and learning what he does?”
John 7:52 They replied, no prophet arises from Galilee.”
John 7:53    The Woman Caught in Adultery  [[They went each to his own house,
John 8:1 but Jesus went to the Mount of Olives.
John 8:2  he sat down and taught them.
John 8:3 The scribes and the Pharisees brought a woman who had been caught in adultery, and placing her in the midst
John 8:4 they said to him, “Teacher, this woman has been caught in the act of adultery.
John 8:5 Now to stone such women. So what do you say?”
John 8:6 This they said that they might have some charge to bring against him. Jesus bent down and wrote with his finger on the ground.
John 8:7 And as they continued to ask him, he stood up and said to them,  be the first to throw a stone at her.”
John 8:8 And once more he bent down and wrote on the ground.
John 8:9 But when they heard it, they went away one by one, beginning with the older ones, and Jesus was left alone with the woman standing before him.
John 8:10 Jesus stood up and said to her, “Woman, where are they? Has no one condemned you?”
John 8:11 She said, “No one, Lord.” And Jesus said,  sin no more.”]]
John 8:12  walk in darkness, but will have the light of life.”
John 8:13 So the Pharisees said to him, “You are bearing witness about yourself; your testimony is not true.”
John 8:14 Jesus answered, “Even if I do bear witness about myself, you do not know where I come from or where I am going.
John 8:15  I judge no one.
John 8:16 Yet even if I do judge,  who sent me.
John 8:17  In your Law it is written that the testimony of two people is true.
John 8:18 I am the one who bears witness about myself, and the Father who sent me bears witness about me.”
John 8:19 They said to him therefore, “Where is your Father?” Jesus answered,  If you knew me, you would know my Father also.”
John 8:20 These words he spoke in his hour had not yet come.
John 8:21 So he said to them again,  you will die in your sin. Where I am going, you cannot come.”
John 8:22 So the Jews said, “Will he kill himself, since he says, ‘Where I am going, you cannot come’?”
John 8:23 He said to them,  I am not of this world.
John 8:24 I told you that you I am he you will die in your sins.”
John 8:25 So they said to him, “Who are you?” Jesus said to them, “Just what I have been telling you from the beginning.
John 8:26 I have much to say about you and much to judge, but what I have heard from him.”
John 8:27 They did not understand that he had been speaking to them about the Father.
John 8:28 So Jesus said to them, “When you have speak just as the Father taught me.
John 8:29 And I always do the things that are pleasing to him.”
John 8:30 As he was saying these things, many believed in him.
John 8:31 So Jesus said to the Jews who had believed him,  “If you abide in my word, you are truly my disciples,
John 8:32 and you will will set you free.”
John 8:33 They answered him, “We are offspring of Abraham and have never been enslaved to anyone. How is it that you say, ‘You will become free’?”
John 8:34 Jesus answered them, “Truly, truly, I say to you,  to sin.
John 8:35  the son remains forever.
John 8:36 So if the Son sets you free, you will be free indeed.
John 8:37 I know that you are offspring of Abraham; yet you seek to kill me because my word finds no place in you.
John 8:38  from your father.”
John 8:39 They answered him, “If you were Abraham's children, you would be doing the works Abraham did,
John 8:40 but now that I heard from God. This is not what Abraham did.
John 8:41 You are doing the works your father did.” They said to him, one Father — even God.”
John 8:42 Jesus said to them,  he sent me.
John 8:43  bear to hear my word.
John 8:44  When he lies, he speaks out of his own character, for he is a liar and the father of lies.
John 8:45 But because I tell the truth, you do not believe me.
John 8:46 Which one of you convicts me of sin? If I tell the truth, why do you not believe me?
John 8:47  you are not of God.”
John 8:48 The Jews answered him, “Are we not right in saying that you are a Samaritan and have a demon?”
John 8:49 Jesus answered, “I do not have a demon, but I honor my Father, and you dishonor me.
John 8:50 Yet I do not seek my own glory; there is One who seeks it, and he is the judge.
John 8:51 Truly, truly, see death.”
John 8:52 The Jews said to him, “Now we know that you have a demon! taste death.’
John 8:53  Are you greater than our father Abraham, who died? And the prophets died! Who do you make yourself out to be?”
John 8:54 Jesus answered,
John 8:55 But like you, but I do know him and I keep his word.
John 8:56  He saw it and was glad.”
John 8:57 So the Jews said to him, “You are not yet fifty years old, and have you seen Abraham?”
John 8:58 Jesus said to them, “Truly, truly, I say to you, before Abraham was, I am.”
John 8:59 So they picked up stones to throw at him, but Jesus hid himself and went out of the temple.
John 9:1 As he passed by, he saw a man blind from birth.
John 9:2 And his disciples asked him, his parents, that he was born blind?”
John 9:3 Jesus answered, “It was not that this man sinned, or his parents, but that the works of God might be displayed in him.
John 9:4 We must while it is day; night is coming, when no one can work.
John 9:5 As long as I am in the world, I am the light of the world.”
John 9:6 Having said these things, Then he anointed the man's eyes with the mud
John 9:7 and said to him, “Go, wash in came back seeing.
John 9:8 The neighbors and those who had seen him before as a beggar were saying, “Is this not the man who used to sit and beg?”
John 9:9 Some said, “It is he.” Others said, “No, but he is like him.” He kept saying, “I am the man.”
John 9:10 So they said to him, “Then how were your eyes opened?”
John 9:11 He answered, “The man called Jesus made mud and anointed my eyes and said to me, ‘Go to Siloam and wash.’ So I went and washed and received my sight.”
John 9:12 They said to him, “Where is he?” He said, “I do not know.”
John 9:13 They brought to the Pharisees the man who had formerly been blind.
John 9:14  Now it was a Sabbath day when Jesus made the mud and opened his eyes.
John 9:15  So the Pharisees again asked him how he had received his sight. And he said to them, “He put mud on my eyes, and I washed, and I see.”
John 9:16 Some of the Pharisees said, “This man is not there was a division among them.
John 9:17 So they said again to the blind man, “What do you say about him, since he has opened your eyes?” He said, “He is a prophet.”
John 9:18   did not believe that he had been blind and had received his sight, until they called the parents of the man who had received his sight
John 9:19 and asked them, “Is this your son, who you say was born blind? How then does he now see?”
John 9:20 His parents answered, “We know that this is our son and that he was born blind.
John 9:21 But how he now sees we do not know, nor do we know who opened his eyes. Ask him; he is of age. He will speak for himself.”
John 9:22 (His parents said these things he was to be put out of the synagogue.)
John 9:23 Therefore his parents said, “He is of age; ask him.”
John 9:24 So for the second time they called the man who had been blind and said to him, this man is a sinner.”
John 9:25 He answered, “Whether he is a sinner I do not know. One thing I do know, that though I was blind, now I see.”
John 9:26 They said to him, “What did he do to you? How did he open your eyes?”
John 9:27 He answered them, “I have told you already, and you would not listen. Why do you want to hear it again? Do you also want to become his disciples?”
John 9:28 And they reviled him, saying, “You are his disciple, but we are disciples of Moses.
John 9:29 We know that God has spoken to Moses, but as for this man, we do not know where he comes from.”
John 9:30 The man answered, “Why, this is You do not know where he comes from, and yet he opened my eyes.
John 9:31 We know that if anyone is a worshiper of God and does his will, God listens to him.
John 9:32 Never since the world began has it been heard that anyone opened the eyes of a man born blind.
John 9:33  If this man were not from God, he could do nothing.”
John 9:34 They answered him, cast him out.
John 9:35 Jesus heard that they had cast him out, and having found him he said, “Do you believe in
John 9:36 He answered, “And who is he, sir, that I may believe in him?”
John 9:37 Jesus said to him, “You have seen him, and it is he who is speaking to you.”
John 9:38 He said, “Lord, I believe,” and he worshiped him.
John 9:39 Jesus said,  those who see may become blind.”
John 9:40 Some of the Pharisees near him heard these things, and said to him, “Are we also blind?”
John 9:41 Jesus said to them, “If you were blind,  but now that you say, ‘We see,’ your guilt remains.
John 10:1 “Truly, truly, I say to you, he who does not enter the sheepfold by the door but climbs in by another way, that man is a thief and a robber.
John 10:2 But he who enters by the door is the shepherd of the sheep.
John 10:3 To him the gatekeeper opens. The sheep hear his voice, and he calls his own sheep by name and leads them out.
John 10:4 When he has brought out all his own, he goes before them, and the sheep follow him, for they know his voice.
John 10:5  A stranger they will not follow, but they will flee from him, for they do not know the voice of strangers.”
John 10:6 This figure of speech Jesus did not understand what he was saying to them.
John 10:7 So Jesus again said to them, “Truly, truly, I say to you, I am the door of the sheep.
John 10:8 All who came before me are thieves and robbers, but the sheep did not listen to them.
John 10:9 I am the door. If anyone enters by me, find pasture.
John 10:10 The thief comes only to steal and kill and destroy. I came that they may have life and have it abundantly.
John 10:11  lays down his life for the sheep.
John 10:12 He who is scatters them.
John 10:13 He flees because cares nothing for the sheep.
John 10:14  my own know me,
John 10:15  I lay down my life for the sheep.
John 10:16 And one shepherd.
John 10:17  I lay down my life that I may take it up again.
John 10:18  This charge I have received from my Father.”
John 10:19  There was again a division among the Jews because of these words.
John 10:20 Many of them said, is insane; why listen to him?”
John 10:21 Others said, “These are not the words of one who is oppressed by a demon. Can a demon open the eyes of the blind?”
John 10:22 At that time the Feast of Dedication took place at Jerusalem. It was winter,
John 10:23 and Jesus was walking in the temple, in the colonnade of Solomon.
John 10:24 So the Jews gathered around him and said to him, “How long will you keep us in suspense? If you are tell us plainly.”
John 10:25 Jesus answered them, “I told you, and you do not believe. in my Father's name bear witness about me,
John 10:26 but you do not believe because you are not among my sheep.
John 10:27  My sheep hear my voice, and I know them, and they follow me.
John 10:28  no one will snatch them out of my hand.
John 10:29 My Father, the Father's hand.
John 10:30  I and the Father are one.”
John 10:31  The Jews picked up stones again to stone him.
John 10:32 Jesus answered them, “I have shown you many good works from the Father; for which of them are you going to stone me?”
John 10:33 The Jews answered him, “It is not for a good work that we are going to stone you but make yourself God.”
John 10:34 Jesus answered them, “Is it not written in ‘I said, you are gods’?
John 10:35 If he called them gods to whom the word of God came — and Scripture cannot be broken —
John 10:36 do you say of him whom I said, ‘I am the Son of God’?
John 10:37  If I am not doing the works of my Father, then do not believe me;
John 10:38 but if I do them, the Father is in me and I am in the Father.”
John 10:39  Again they sought to arrest him, but he escaped from their hands.
John 10:40 He went away again across the Jordan to the place where John had been baptizing at first, and there he remained.
John 10:41 And many came to him. And they said, “John did no sign, but everything that John said about this man was true.”
John 10:42 And many believed in him there.
John 11:1 Now a certain man was ill, Lazarus of Bethany, the village of Mary and her sister Martha.
John 11:2  It was Mary who anointed the Lord with ointment and wiped his feet with her hair, whose brother Lazarus was ill.
John 11:3 So the sisters sent to him, saying, “Lord, he whom you love is ill.”
John 11:4 But when Jesus heard it he said,  the glory of God, so that the Son of God may be glorified through it.”
John 11:5 Now Jesus loved Martha and her sister and Lazarus.
John 11:6 So, when he heard that Lazarus he stayed two days longer in the place where he was.
John 11:7 Then after this he said to the disciples,  “Let us go to Judea again.”
John 11:8 The disciples said to him, the Jews were just now seeking to stone you, and are you going there again?”
John 11:9 Jesus answered,  If anyone walks in the day, he does not stumble, because he sees the light of this world.
John 11:10 But in him.”
John 11:11 After saying these things, he said to them, “Our friend Lazarus has fallen asleep, but I go to awaken him.”
John 11:12 The disciples said to him, “Lord, if he has fallen asleep, he will recover.”
John 11:13 Now Jesus had spoken of his death, but they thought that he meant taking rest in sleep.
John 11:14 Then Jesus told them plainly, “Lazarus has died,
John 11:15 and for your sake I am glad that I was not there, so that you may believe. But let us go to him.”
John 11:16  that we may die with him.”
John 11:17 Now when Jesus came, he found that Lazarus had already been in the tomb four days.
John 11:18 Bethany was near Jerusalem, about two miles  off,
John 11:19 and many of the Jews had come to Martha and Mary to console them concerning their brother.
John 11:20  So when Martha heard that Jesus was coming, she went and met him, but Mary remained seated in the house.
John 11:21 Martha said to if you had been here, my brother would not have died.
John 11:22 But even now I know that whatever you ask from God, God will give you.”
John 11:23 Jesus said to her, “Your brother will rise again.”
John 11:24  the resurrection on the last day.”
John 11:25 Jesus said to her,  yet shall he live,
John 11:26 and everyone who lives and believes in me shall never die. Do you believe this?”
John 11:27 She said to him, “Yes, Lord; who is coming into the world.”
John 11:28 When she had said this, she went and called her sister Mary, saying in private, “The Teacher is here and is calling for you.”
John 11:29 And when she heard it, she rose quickly and went to him.
John 11:30 Now Jesus had not yet come into the village, but was still in the place where Martha had met him.
John 11:31 When the Jews who were with her in the house, consoling her, saw Mary rise quickly and go out, they followed her, supposing that she was going to the tomb to weep there.
John 11:32 Now when Mary came to where Jesus was and saw him, she fell at his feet, saying to him, “Lord, if you had been here, my brother would not have died.”
John 11:33 When Jesus saw her weeping, and the Jews who had come with her also weeping, he greatly troubled.
John 11:34 And he said, “Where have you laid him?” They said to him, “Lord, come and see.”
John 11:35  Jesus wept.
John 11:36 So the Jews said, “See how he loved him!”
John 11:37 But some of them said, “Could not he also have kept this man from dying?”
John 11:38 Then Jesus, a stone lay against it.
John 11:39 Jesus said, “Take away the stone.” Martha, the sister of the dead man, said to him, “Lord, by this time there will be an odor, for he has been dead four days.”
John 11:40 Jesus said to her,  the glory of God?”
John 11:41 So they took away the stone. And Jesus lifted up his eyes and said, “Father, I thank you that you have heard me.
John 11:42  that they may believe that you sent me.”
John 11:43 When he had said these things, he cried out with a loud voice, “Lazarus, come out.”
John 11:44  his face wrapped with a cloth. Jesus said to them, “Unbind him, and let him go.”
John 11:45  had seen what he did, believed in him,
John 11:46 but some of them went to the Pharisees and told them what Jesus had done.
John 11:47 So the chief priests and the Pharisees “What are we to do? For this man performs many signs.
John 11:48 If we let him go on like this, everyone will believe in him, and place and our nation.”
John 11:49 But one of them, who was high priest that year, said to them, “You know nothing at all.
John 11:50 Nor do you understand that it is better for you that one man should die for the people, not that the whole nation should perish.”
John 11:51 He did not say this of his own accord, but he prophesied that Jesus would die for the nation,
John 11:52 and to gather into one the children of God who are scattered abroad.
John 11:53 So from that day on they made plans to put him to death.
John 11:54 Jesus therefore no longer walked openly among the Jews, but went from there to the region near the wilderness, to a town called Ephraim, and there he stayed with the disciples.
John 11:55 Now to purify themselves.
John 11:56   Jesus and saying to one another as they stood in the temple, “What do you think? That he will not come to the feast at all?”
John 11:57 Now the chief priests and the Pharisees had given orders that if anyone knew where he was, he should let them know, so that they might arrest him.
John 12:1 Six days before where Lazarus was, whom Jesus had raised from the dead.
John 12:2 So they gave a dinner for him there. Martha served, and Lazarus was one of those reclining with him at table.
John 12:3   of expensive ointment made from pure nard, and anointed the feet of Jesus and wiped his feet with her hair. The house was filled with the fragrance of the perfume.
John 12:4 But Judas Iscariot, one of his disciples (he who was about to betray him), said,
John 12:5 “Why was this ointment not sold for three hundred denarii given to the poor?”
John 12:6 He said this, not because he cared about the poor, but because he was a thief, and having charge of the moneybag he used to help himself to what was put into it.
John 12:7 Jesus said, “Leave her alone, so that she may keep it  for the day of my burial.
John 12:8 For the poor you always have with you, but you do not always have me.”
John 12:9 When the large crowd of the Jews learned that Jesus whom he had raised from the dead.
John 12:10  So the chief priests made plans to put Lazarus to death as well,
John 12:11 because on account of him many of the Jews were going away and believing in Jesus.
John 12:12 The next day the large crowd that had come to the feast heard that Jesus was coming to Jerusalem.
John 12:13 So they took branches of the King of Israel!”
John 12:14 And Jesus found a young donkey and sat on it, just as it is written,
John 12:15  “Fear not, daughter of Zion; behold, your king is coming, sitting on a donkey's colt!”
John 12:16  they remembered that these things had been written about him and had been done to him.
John 12:17  The crowd that had been with him when he called Lazarus out of the tomb and raised him from the dead continued to bear witness.
John 12:18 The reason why the crowd went to meet him was that they heard he had done this sign.
John 12:19 So the Pharisees said to one another, the world has gone after him.”
John 12:20 Now Greeks.
John 12:21 So these came to Philip, who was from Bethsaida in Galilee, and asked him, “Sir, we wish to see Jesus.”
John 12:22 Philip went and told Andrew; Andrew and Philip went and told Jesus.
John 12:23 And Jesus answered them,  for the Son of Man to be glorified.
John 12:24 Truly, truly, I say to you, unless a grain of wheat falls into the earth and dies, it remains alone; but if it dies, it bears much fruit.
John 12:25  hates his life in this world will keep it for eternal life.
John 12:26 If anyone serves me, he must the Father will honor him.
John 12:27  this hour.
John 12:28 Father, glorify your name.” Then a voice came from heaven: “I have glorified it, and I will glorify it again.”
John 12:29 The crowd that stood there and heard it said that it had thundered. Others said, “An angel has spoken to him.”
John 12:30 Jesus answered,  “This voice has come for your sake, not mine.
John 12:31  be cast out.
John 12:32 And I, all people to myself.”
John 12:33 He said this to show by what kind of death he was going to die.
John 12:34 So the crowd answered him, “We have heard from the Law that the Son of Man must be lifted up? Who is this Son of Man?”
John 12:35 So Jesus said to them,  The one who walks in the darkness does not know where he is going.
John 12:36 While you have the light, believe in the light, that you may become sons of light.” The Unbelief of the People  When Jesus had said these things, he departed and hid himself from them.
John 12:37 Though he had done so many signs before them, they still did not believe in him,
John 12:38 “Lord, who has believed what he heard from us, and to whom has the arm of the Lord been revealed?”
John 12:39 Therefore they could not believe. For again Isaiah said,
John 12:40  hardened their heart, lest they see with their eyes, and understand with their heart, and turn, and I would heal them.”
John 12:41 Isaiah said these things because spoke of him.
John 12:42 Nevertheless, put out of the synagogue;
John 12:43  for they loved the glory that comes from man more than the glory that comes from God.
John 12:44 And Jesus cried out and said,  in him who sent me.
John 12:45 And sees me sees him who sent me.
John 12:46  I have come into the world as light, so that whoever believes in me may not remain in darkness.
John 12:47 If anyone I did not come to judge the world but to save the world.
John 12:48  on the last day.
John 12:49 For a commandment — what to say and what to speak.
John 12:50 And I know that his commandment is eternal life. What I say, therefore, I say as the Father has told me.”
John 13:1 Now his own who were in the world, he loved them to the end.
John 13:2 During supper, when the devil had already put it into the heart of Judas Iscariot, Simon's son, to betray him,
John 13:3 Jesus, knowing was going back to God,
John 13:4 rose from supper. He laid aside his outer garments, and taking a towel, tied it around his waist.
John 13:5 Then he poured water into a basin and began to wash the disciples' feet and to wipe them with the towel that was wrapped around him.
John 13:6 He came to Simon Peter, who said to him, “Lord, do you wash my feet?”
John 13:7  you do not understand now, but afterward you will understand.”
John 13:8  “If I do not wash you, you have no share with me.”
John 13:9 Simon Peter said to him, “Lord, not my feet only but also my hands and my head!”
John 13:10 Jesus said to him, “The one who has bathed does not need to wash, but not every one of you.”
John 13:11  For he knew who was to betray him; that was why he said, “Not all of you are clean.”
John 13:12 When he had washed their feet and “Do you understand what I have done to you?
John 13:13  Teacher and Lord, and you are right, for so I am.
John 13:14 If I then, your Lord and Teacher, have washed your feet, you also ought to wash one another's feet.
John 13:15 For I have given you an example, that you also should do just as I have done to you.
John 13:16 Truly, truly, I say to you,  is not greater than his master, nor is a messenger greater than the one who sent him.
John 13:17 If you know these things, blessed are you if you do them.
John 13:18  ‘He who ate my bread has lifted his heel against me.’
John 13:19  I am telling you this now, before it takes place, that when it does take place you may believe that I am he.
John 13:20 Truly, truly, I say to you, whoever receives the one I send receives me, and whoever receives me receives the one who sent me.”
John 13:21 After saying these things, one of you will betray me.”
John 13:22  The disciples looked at one another, uncertain of whom he spoke.
John 13:23
John 13:24 so Simon Peter motioned to him to ask Jesus  of whom he was speaking.
John 13:25  leaning back against Jesus, said to him, “Lord, who is it?”
John 13:26 Jesus answered,  the son of Simon Iscariot.
John 13:27 Then after he had taken the morsel, “What you are going to do, do quickly.”
John 13:28 Now no one at the table knew why he said this to him.
John 13:29 Some thought that, give something to the poor.
John 13:30 So, after receiving the morsel of bread, he immediately went out. And it was night.
John 13:31 When he had gone out, Jesus said,  God is glorified in him.
John 13:32 If God is glorified in him, glorify him at once.
John 13:33 Little children, as I said to the Jews, so now I also say to you, ‘Where I am going you cannot come.’
John 13:34  just as I have loved you, you also are to love one another.
John 13:35  By this all people will know that you are my disciples, if you have love for one another.”
John 13:36 Simon Peter said to him, “Lord, where are you going?” but you will follow afterward.”
John 13:37  Peter said to him, “Lord, why can I not follow you now? I will lay down my life for you.”
John 13:38 Jesus answered, “Will you lay down your life for me? Truly, truly, I say to you, the rooster will not crow till you have denied me three times.
John 14:1   believe also in me.
John 14:2 In
John 14:3 And if I go and prepare a place for you, I will come again and will take you where I am you may be also.
John 14:4 And you know the way to where I am going.”
John 14:5  we do not know where you are going. How can we know the way?”
John 14:6 Jesus said to him, “I am the life. No one comes to the Father except through me.
John 14:7  have seen him.”
John 14:8  show us the Father, and it is enough for us.”
John 14:9 Jesus said to him, “Have I been with you so long, and you still do not know me, Philip? Whoever has seen me has seen the Father. How can you say, ‘Show us the Father’?
John 14:10 Do you not believe that I do not speak on my own authority, but the Father who dwells in me does his works.
John 14:11 Believe me that believe on account of the works themselves.
John 14:12 “Truly, truly, I say to you, am going to the Father.
John 14:13  the Father may be glorified in the Son.
John 14:14   anything in my name, I will do it.
John 14:15  keep my commandments.
John 14:16 And I will ask the Father, and he will give you another  to be with you forever,
John 14:17 even  in you.
John 14:18 “I will not leave you as orphans; I will come to you.
John 14:19  Because I live, you also will live.
John 14:20  I in you.
John 14:21  manifest myself to him.”
John 14:22  that you will manifest yourself to us, and not to the world?”
John 14:23 Jesus answered him,  make our home with him.
John 14:24 Whoever does not love me does not keep my words. And the word that you hear is not mine but the Father's who sent me.
John 14:25 “These things I have spoken to you while I am still with you.
John 14:26 But the bring to your remembrance all that I have said to you.
John 14:27  let them be afraid.
John 14:28  the Father is greater than I.
John 14:29 And now I have told you before it takes place, so that when it does take place you may believe.
John 14:30 I will no longer talk much with you, for He has no claim on me,
John 14:31 but I do so that the world may know that I love the Father. Rise, let us go from here.
John 15:1 “I am the the vinedresser.
John 15:2  that it may bear more fruit.
John 15:3 Already because of the word that I have spoken to you.
John 15:4  in me, and I in you. As the branch cannot bear fruit by itself, unless it abides in the vine, neither can you, unless you abide in me.
John 15:5 I am the vine; bears much fruit, for apart from me you can do nothing.
John 15:6 If anyone does not abide in me and the branches are gathered, thrown into the fire, and burned.
John 15:7 If ask whatever you wish, and it will be done for you.
John 15:8  bear much fruit and so prove to be my disciples.
John 15:9  so have I loved you. Abide in my love.
John 15:10  my Father's commandments and abide in his love.
John 15:11 These things I have spoken to you, your joy may be full.
John 15:12  “This is my commandment, that you love one another as I have loved you.
John 15:13  that someone lay down his life for his friends.
John 15:14 You are if you do what I command you.
John 15:15  I have made known to you.
John 15:16 You did not choose me, but whatever you ask the Father in my name, he may give it to you.
John 15:17 These things I command you, so that you will love one another.
John 15:18  “If the world hates you, know that it has hated me before it hated you.
John 15:19  you are not of the world, but I chose you out of the world, therefore the world hates you.
John 15:20 Remember the word that I said to you: If they kept my word, they will also keep yours.
John 15:21 But because they do not know him who sent me.
John 15:22 If I had not come and spoken to them,  but now they have no excuse for their sin.
John 15:23  Whoever hates me hates my Father also.
John 15:24  seen and hated both me and my Father.
John 15:25 But ‘They hated me without a cause.’
John 15:26 “But he will bear witness about me.
John 15:27 And from the beginning.
John 16:1 “I have said all these things to you to keep you from falling away.
John 16:2  whoever kills you will think he is offering service to God.
John 16:3 And they will do these things because they have not known the Father, nor me.
John 16:4 But because I was with you.
John 16:5 But now none of you asks me, ‘Where are you going?’
John 16:6 But because I have said these things to you, sorrow has filled your heart.
John 16:7 Nevertheless, I tell you the truth: it is to your advantage that I go away, for I will send him to you.
John 16:8  convict the world concerning sin and righteousness and judgment:
John 16:9 concerning sin, because they do not believe in me;
John 16:10  because I go to the Father, and you will see me no longer;
John 16:11  is judged.
John 16:12 “I still have many things to say to you, but you cannot bear them now.
John 16:13 When whatever he hears he will speak, and he will declare to you the things that are to come.
John 16:14 He will glorify me, for he will take what is mine and declare it to you.
John 16:15  therefore I said that he will take what is mine and declare it to you.
John 16:16  again a little while, and you will see me.”
John 16:17 So ‘because I am going to the Father’?”
John 16:18 So they were saying, “What does he mean by ‘a little while’? We do not know what he is talking about.”
John 16:19  Jesus knew that they wanted to ask him, so he said to them, “Is this what you are asking yourselves, what I meant by saying, ‘A little while and you will not see me, and again a little while and you will see me’?
John 16:20 Truly, truly, I say to you, your sorrow will turn into joy.
John 16:21  When a woman is giving birth, she has sorrow because her hour has come, but when she has delivered the baby, she no longer remembers the anguish, for joy that a human being has been born into the world.
John 16:22  your hearts will rejoice, and no one will take your joy from you.
John 16:23  he will give it to you.
John 16:24 Until now you have asked nothing in my name. that your joy may be full.
John 16:25 “I have said these things to you in figures of speech. The hour is coming when I will no longer speak to you in figures of speech but will tell you plainly about the Father.
John 16:26 In that day you will ask in my name, and I do not say to you that I will ask the Father on your behalf;
John 16:27
John 16:28  I am leaving the world and going to the Father.”
John 16:29 His disciples said, “Ah, now you are speaking plainly and not using figurative speech!
John 16:30 Now we know that you came from God.”
John 16:31 Jesus answered them, “Do you now believe?
John 16:32 Behold, Yet I am not alone, for the Father is with me.
John 16:33 I have said these things to you, that I have overcome the world.”
John 17:1 When Jesus had spoken these words, glorify you,
John 17:2 since whom you have given him.
John 17:3  Jesus Christ whom you have sent.
John 17:4 I having accomplished the work that you gave me to do.
John 17:5 And now, Father, before the world existed.
John 17:6  Yours they were, and you gave them to me, and they have kept your word.
John 17:7 Now they know that everything that you have given me is from you.
John 17:8 For I have given them they have believed that you sent me.
John 17:9 I am praying for them. they are yours.
John 17:10  I am glorified in them.
John 17:11 And I am no longer in the world, but even as we are one.
John 17:12  that the Scripture might be fulfilled.
John 17:13 But now my joy fulfilled in themselves.
John 17:14  just as I am not of the world.
John 17:15 I
John 17:16  They are not of the world, just as I am not of the world.
John 17:17  your word is truth.
John 17:18  As you sent me into the world, so I have sent them into the world.
John 17:19 And  in truth.
John 17:20 “I do not who will believe in me through their word,
John 17:21  may believe that you have sent me.
John 17:22  that they may be one even as we are one,
John 17:23  you loved me.
John 17:24 Father, I desire that they also, whom you have given me, may be before the foundation of the world.
John 17:25  the world does not know you, I know you, and these know that you have sent me.
John 17:26  I in them.”
John 18:1 When Jesus had spoken these words, the brook Kidron, where there was a garden, which he and his disciples entered.
John 18:2 Now Judas, who betrayed him, also knew Jesus often met there with his disciples.
John 18:3  So Judas, having procured a band of soldiers and some officers from the chief priests and the Pharisees, went there with lanterns and torches and weapons.
John 18:4 Then Jesus, “Whom do you seek?”
John 18:5 They answered him, “Jesus of Nazareth.” Jesus said to them, “I am he.”  Judas, who betrayed him, was standing with them.
John 18:6   said to them, “I am he,” they drew back and fell to the ground.
John 18:7 So he asked them again,  “Whom do you seek?” And they said, “Jesus of Nazareth.”
John 18:8 Jesus answered, “I told you that I am he. So, if you seek me, let these men go.”
John 18:9  This was to fulfill the word that he had spoken: “Of those whom you gave me I have lost not one.”
John 18:10 Then Simon Peter,  and cut off his right ear. (The servant's name was Malchus.)
John 18:11 So Jesus said to Peter, “Put your sword into its sheath; shall I not drink the cup that the Father has given me?”
John 18:12 So the band of soldiers and their captain and the officers of the Jews  arrested Jesus and bound him.
John 18:13 First they Caiaphas, who was high priest that year.
John 18:14 It was Caiaphas who had advised the Jews that it would be expedient that one man should die for the people.
John 18:15  Simon Peter followed Jesus, and so did another disciple. Since that disciple was known to the high priest, he entered with Jesus into the courtyard of the high priest,
John 18:16  but Peter stood outside at the door. So the other disciple, who was known to the high priest, went out and spoke to the servant girl who kept watch at the door, and brought Peter in.
John 18:17  The servant girl at the door said to Peter, “You also are not one of this man's disciples, are you?” He said, “I am not.”
John 18:18 Now the servants Peter also was with them, standing and warming himself.
John 18:19  The high priest then questioned Jesus about his disciples and his teaching.
John 18:20 Jesus answered him, “I have spoken I have said nothing in secret.
John 18:21 Why do you ask me? Ask those who have heard me what I said to them; they know what I said.”
John 18:22 When he had said these things, one of the officers standing by struck Jesus with his hand, saying, “Is that how you answer the high priest?”
John 18:23 Jesus answered him, “If what I said is wrong, bear witness about the wrong; but if what I said is right, why do you strike me?”
John 18:24  Caiaphas the high priest.
John 18:25  Now Simon Peter was standing and warming himself. So they said to him, “You also are not one of his disciples, are you?” He denied it and said, “I am not.”
John 18:26 One of the servants of the high priest, a relative of in the garden with him?”
John 18:27 Peter again denied it, and at once a rooster crowed.
John 18:28  but could eat the Passover.
John 18:29  So Pilate went outside to them and said, “What accusation do you bring against this man?”
John 18:30 They answered him, “If this man were not doing evil, we would not have delivered him over to you.”
John 18:31 Pilate said to them, “Take him yourselves and judge him by your own law.” The Jews said to him, “It is not lawful for us to put anyone to death.”
John 18:32  to show by what kind of death he was going to die.
John 18:33  “Are you the King of the Jews?”
John 18:34 Jesus answered, “Do you say this of your own accord, or did others say it to you about me?”
John 18:35 Pilate answered, “Am I a Jew? Your own nation and the chief priests have delivered you over to me. What have you done?”
John 18:36 Jesus answered,  I might not be delivered over to the Jews. But my kingdom is not from the world.”
John 18:37 Then Pilate said to him, “So you are a king?” Jesus answered,  listens to my voice.”
John 18:38 Pilate said to him, “What is truth?” After he had said this, “I find no guilt in him.
John 18:39  But you have a custom that I should release one man for you at the Passover. So do you want me to release to you the King of the Jews?”
John 18:40 They cried out again,
John 19:1 Then Pilate took Jesus and flogged him.
John 19:2  And the soldiers twisted together a crown of thorns and put it on his head and arrayed him in a purple robe.
John 19:3 They came up to him, saying, “Hail, King of the Jews!” and struck him with their hands.
John 19:4 Pilate went out again and said to them, “See, I am bringing him out to you that you may know that I find no guilt in him.”
John 19:5 So Jesus came out, wearing “Behold the man!”
John 19:6 When the chief priests and the officers saw him, they cried out, “Crucify him, crucify him!” Pilate said to them, I find no guilt in him.”
John 19:7 The Jews he has made himself the Son of God.”
John 19:8 When Pilate heard this statement, he was even more afraid.
John 19:9  Jesus gave him no answer.
John 19:10 So Pilate said to him, “You will not speak to me? Do you not know that I have authority to release you and authority to crucify you?”
John 19:11 Jesus answered him,  has the greater sin.”
John 19:12 From then on Everyone who makes himself a king opposes Caesar.”
John 19:13 So when Pilate heard these words, he brought Jesus out and sat down on  Gabbatha.
John 19:14 Now it was “Behold your King!”
John 19:15 They cried out, “Away with him, away with him, crucify him!” Pilate said to them, “Shall I crucify your King?” The chief priests answered, “We have no king but Caesar.”
John 19:16  delivered him over to them to be crucified. The Crucifixion  So they took Jesus,
John 19:17 and bearing his own cross, to the place called The Place of a Skull, which in Aramaic is called Golgotha.
John 19:18  There they crucified him, and with him two others, one on either side, and Jesus between them.
John 19:19 Pilate also wrote an inscription and put it on the cross. It read, “Jesus of Nazareth, the King of the Jews.”
John 19:20 Many of the Jews read this inscription, for the place where Jesus was crucified was near the city, and it was written in Aramaic, in Latin, and in Greek.
John 19:21 So the chief priests of the Jews said to Pilate, “Do not write, ‘The King of the Jews,’ but rather, ‘This man said, I am King of the Jews.’”
John 19:22 Pilate answered, “What I have written I have written.”
John 19:23   But the tunic was seamless, woven in one piece from top to bottom,
John 19:24 so they said to one another, “Let us not tear it, but cast lots for it to see whose it shall be.”“They divided my garments among them, and for my clothing they cast lots.”  So the soldiers did these things,
John 19:25  but standing by the cross of Jesus were his mother and his mother's sister, Mary the wife of Clopas, and Mary Magdalene.
John 19:26 When Jesus saw his mother and “Woman, behold, your son!”
John 19:27 Then he said to the disciple, “Behold, your mother!” And from that hour the disciple took her to his own home.
John 19:28 After this, Jesus, knowing that all was now “I thirst.”
John 19:29 A jar full of sour wine stood there, so they put a sponge full of the sour wine on a hyssop branch and held it to his mouth.
John 19:30 When Jesus had received the sour wine, he said,  gave up his spirit.
John 19:31 Since it was a high day), the Jews asked Pilate that their legs might be broken and that they might be taken away.
John 19:32 So the soldiers came and broke the legs of the first, and of the other who had been crucified with him.
John 19:33 But when they came to Jesus and saw that he was already dead, they did not break his legs.
John 19:34 But one of the soldiers pierced his side with a spear, and at once there came out blood and water.
John 19:35  that you also may believe.
John 19:36  will be broken.”
John 19:37 And again another Scripture says, “They will look on him whom they have pierced.”
John 19:38  for fear of the Jews, asked Pilate that he might take away the body of Jesus, and Pilate gave him permission. So he came and took away his body.
John 19:39   in weight.
John 19:40 So they took the body of Jesus and linen cloths with the spices, as is the burial custom of the Jews.
John 19:41 Now in the place where he was crucified there was a in which no one had yet been laid.
John 19:42 So because of the Jewish since the tomb was close at hand, they laid Jesus there.
John 20:1  the stone had been taken away from the tomb.
John 20:2 So she ran and went to Simon Peter and the other disciple, we do not know where they have laid him.”
John 20:3  So Peter went out with the other disciple, and they were going toward the tomb.
John 20:4 Both of them were running together, but the other disciple outran Peter and reached the tomb first.
John 20:5 And stooping to look in, he saw the linen cloths lying there, but he did not go in.
John 20:6 Then Simon Peter came, following him, and went into the tomb. He saw the linen cloths lying there,
John 20:7 and  head, not lying with the linen cloths but folded up in a place by itself.
John 20:8 Then the other disciple, who had reached the tomb first, also went in, and he saw and believed;
John 20:9 for as yet that he must rise from the dead.
John 20:10 Then the disciples went back to their homes.
John 20:11 But Mary stood weeping outside the tomb, and as she wept she stooped to look into the tomb.
John 20:12 And two angels in white, sitting where the body of Jesus had lain, one at the head and one at the feet.
John 20:13 They said to her, “They have taken away my Lord, and I do not know where they have laid him.”
John 20:14 Having said this, she turned around and but she did not know that it was Jesus.
John 20:15 Jesus said to her,  the gardener, she said to him, “Sir, if you have carried him away, tell me where you have laid him, and I will take him away.”
John 20:16 Jesus said to her, “Mary.” She turned and said to him in Aramaic, “Rabboni!” (which means Teacher).
John 20:17 Jesus said to her, “Do not cling to me, for I have not yet ascended to the Father; but go to my God and your God.’”
John 20:18 Mary Magdalene went and announced to the disciples, “I have seen the Lord” — and that he had said these things to her.
John 20:19  “Peace be with you.”
John 20:20 When he had said this, the disciples were glad when they saw the Lord.
John 20:21 Jesus said to them again, “Peace be with you. As even so I am sending you.”
John 20:22 And when he had said this, he “Receive the Holy Spirit.
John 20:23  If you forgive the sins of any, they are forgiven them; if you withhold forgiveness from any, it is withheld.”
John 20:24 Now  was not with them when Jesus came.
John 20:25 So the other disciples told him, “We have seen the Lord.” But he said to them, “Unless I see in his hands the mark of the nails, and place my finger into the mark of the nails, and place my hand into his side, I will never believe.”
John 20:26 Eight days later, his disciples were inside again, and Thomas was with them. “Peace be with you.”
John 20:27 Then he said to Thomas,  “Put your finger here, and see my hands; and put out your hand, and place it in my side. Do not disbelieve, but believe.”
John 20:28 Thomas answered him, “My Lord and my God!”
John 20:29 Jesus said to him, “Have you believed because you have seen me? Blessed are those who have not seen and yet have believed.”
John 20:30  in the presence of the disciples, which are not written in this book;
John 20:31  in his name.
John 21:1 After this Jesus the Sea of Tiberias, and he revealed himself in this way.
John 21:2 Simon Peter, the sons of Zebedee, and two others of his disciples were together.
John 21:3 Simon Peter said to them, “I am going fishing.” They said to him, “We will go with you.” They went out and got into the boat, but that night they caught nothing.
John 21:4 Just as day was breaking, Jesus stood on the shore; yet the disciples did not know that it was Jesus.
John 21:5  Jesus said to them, “Children, do you have any fish?” They answered him, “No.”
John 21:6  He said to them, “Cast the net on the right side of the boat, and you will find some.” So they cast it, and now they were not able to haul it in, because of the quantity of fish.
John 21:7 That disciple threw himself into the sea.
John 21:8 The other disciples came in the boat, dragging the net full of fish, for they were not far from the land, but about a hundred yards  off.
John 21:9 When they got out on land, they saw a charcoal fire in place, with fish laid out on it, and bread.
John 21:10 Jesus said to them, “Bring some of the fish that you have just caught.”
John 21:11 So Simon Peter went aboard and hauled the net ashore, full of large fish, 153 of them. And although there were so many, the net was not torn.
John 21:12 Jesus said to them,  none of the disciples dared ask him, “Who are you?” They knew it was the Lord.
John 21:13 Jesus came and took the bread and gave it to them, and so with the fish.
John 21:14  This was now the third time that Jesus was revealed to the disciples after he was raised from the dead.
John 21:15 When they had my lambs.”
John 21:16 He said to him a second time, “Simon, son of John, do you love me?” He said to him, “Yes, Lord; you know that I love you.” He said to him,  my sheep.”
John 21:17 He said to him the third time, “Simon, son of John, do you love me?” Peter was grieved because he said to him my sheep.
John 21:18  you used to dress yourself and walk wherever you wanted, but when you are old, you will stretch out your hands, and another will dress you and carry you where you do not want to go.”
John 21:19 (This he said to show “Follow me.”
John 21:20 Peter turned and saw the one who also had leaned back against him during the supper and had said, “Lord, who is it that is going to betray you?”
John 21:21 When Peter saw him, he said to Jesus, “Lord, what about this man?”
John 21:22 Jesus said to him, “If it is my will that he remain You follow me!”
John 21:23 So the saying spread abroad among  that this disciple was not to die; yet Jesus did not say to him that he was not to die, but, “If it is my will that he remain until I come, what is that to you?”
John 21:24 This is the disciple that his testimony is true.
John 21:25 Now the world itself could not contain the books that would be written.
Acts 1:1 In the first book, O to do and teach,
Acts 1:2 until the day when through the Holy Spirit to the apostles whom he had chosen.
Acts 1:3  He presented himself alive to them after his suffering by many proofs, appearing to them during forty days and speaking about the kingdom of God.
Acts 1:4 And while staying he ordered them not to depart from Jerusalem, but to wait for the promise of the Father, which, he said, “you heard from me;
Acts 1:5 for  the Holy Spirit not many days from now.”
Acts 1:6 So when they had come together, they asked him, “Lord, restore the kingdom to Israel?”
Acts 1:7 He said to them,  times or seasons that the Father has fixed by his own authority.
Acts 1:8 But you will receive to the end of the earth.”
Acts 1:9 And when he had said these things, as they were looking on, a cloud took him out of their sight.
Acts 1:10 And while they were gazing into heaven as he went, behold, white robes,
Acts 1:11 and said, come in the same way as you saw him go into heaven.”
Acts 1:12 Then they returned to Jerusalem from the mount called Olivet, which is near Jerusalem, a Sabbath day's journey away.
Acts 1:13 And when they had entered, they went up to the Zealot and Judas the son of James.
Acts 1:14 All these
Acts 1:15 In those days Peter stood up among the brothers (the company of persons was in all about 120) and said,
Acts 1:16 “Brothers, who became a guide to those who arrested Jesus.
Acts 1:17 For this ministry.”
Acts 1:18 (Now this man  he burst open in the middle and all his bowels gushed out.
Acts 1:19 And it became known to all the inhabitants of Jerusalem, so that the field was called in their own language Akeldama, that is, Field of Blood.)
Acts 1:20 “For it is written in the Book of Psalms, “‘Let another take his office.’
Acts 1:21 So one of the men who have accompanied us during went in and out among us,
Acts 1:22  a witness to his resurrection.”
Acts 1:23 And they put forward two, Joseph called Matthias.
Acts 1:24 And who know the hearts of all, show which one of these two you have chosen
Acts 1:25 to take the place in apostleship from which Judas turned aside to go to his own place.”
Acts 1:26 And they cast lots for them, and the lot fell on Matthias, and he was numbered with the eleven apostles.
Acts 2:1 When the day of Pentecost arrived, they were all together in one place.
Acts 2:2 And suddenly there came from heaven a sound like it filled the entire house where they were sitting.
Acts 2:3 And divided tongues  on each one of them.
Acts 2:4 And they were all as the Spirit gave them utterance.
Acts 2:5 Now there were dwelling in Jerusalem Jews, devout men from every nation under heaven.
Acts 2:6 And at this sound the multitude came together, and they were bewildered, because each one was hearing them speak in his own language.
Acts 2:7 And Galileans?
Acts 2:8 And how is it that we hear, each of us in his own native language?
Acts 2:9 Parthians and Elamites and residents of Mesopotamia, Judea and Cappadocia, Pontus and Asia,
Acts 2:10 Phrygia and Pamphylia, Egypt and the parts of Libya belonging to Cyrene, and visitors from Rome,
Acts 2:11 both Jews and proselytes, Cretans and Arabians — we hear them telling in our own tongues the mighty works of God.”
Acts 2:12 And all were amazed and perplexed, saying to one another, “What does this mean?”
Acts 2:13 But others mocking said, “They are filled with new wine.”
Acts 2:14 But Peter, standing with the eleven, lifted up his voice and addressed them: “Men of Judea and all who dwell in Jerusalem, let this be known to you, and give ear to my words.
Acts 2:15 For these people are not drunk, as you suppose,
Acts 2:16 But this is what was uttered through the prophet Joel:
Acts 2:17  your daughters shall prophesy, and your young men shall see visions, and your old men shall dream dreams;
Acts 2:18 even on my male servants and female servants in those days I will pour out my Spirit, and they shall prophesy.
Acts 2:19 And I will show wonders in the heavens above and signs on the earth below, blood, and fire, and vapor of smoke;
Acts 2:20  the day of the Lord comes, the great and magnificent day.
Acts 2:21 And it shall come to pass that everyone who calls upon the name of the Lord shall be saved.’
Acts 2:22 “Men of Israel, hear these words: Jesus of Nazareth, God did through him in your midst, as you yourselves know —
Acts 2:23 this Jesus, you crucified and killed by the hands of lawless men.
Acts 2:24  it was not possible for him to be held by it.
Acts 2:25 For David says concerning him, “‘I saw the Lord always before me, for he is at my right hand that I may not be shaken;
Acts 2:26 therefore my heart was glad, and my tongue rejoiced; my flesh also will dwell in hope.
Acts 2:27 For you will not abandon my soul to see corruption.
Acts 2:28 You have made known to me the paths of life; you will make me full of gladness with your presence.’
Acts 2:29 “Brothers, I may say to you with confidence about his tomb is with us to this day.
Acts 2:30  God had sworn with an oath to him that he would set one of his descendants on his throne,
Acts 2:31 he foresaw and spoke about the resurrection of the Christ, that he was not abandoned to Hades, nor did his flesh see corruption.
Acts 2:32 This Jesus and of that we all are witnesses.
Acts 2:33  he has poured out this that you yourselves are seeing and hearing.
Acts 2:34 For“‘The Lord said to my Lord, “Sit at my right hand,
Acts 2:35 until I make your enemies your footstool.”’
Acts 2:36 Let all the house of Israel therefore know for certain that whom you crucified.”
Acts 2:37 Now when what shall we do?”
Acts 2:38 And Peter said to them, the gift of the Holy Spirit.
Acts 2:39 For whom the Lord our God calls to himself.”
Acts 2:40 And with many other words he bore witness and continued to exhort them, saying, crooked generation.”
Acts 2:41 So those who received his word were baptized, and there were added that day about three thousand souls.
Acts 2:42 And the breaking of bread and the prayers.
Acts 2:43 And awe many wonders and signs were being done through the apostles.
Acts 2:44 And all who believed were together and had all things in common.
Acts 2:45 And they were selling their possessions and belongings and distributing the proceeds to all, as any had need.
Acts 2:46 And day by day, with glad and generous hearts,
Acts 2:47 praising God and were being saved.
Acts 3:1 Now Peter and John were
Acts 3:2 And a man to ask alms of those entering the temple.
Acts 3:3 Seeing Peter and John about to go into the temple, he asked to receive alms.
Acts 3:4 And Peter directed his gaze at him, as did John, and said, “Look at us.”
Acts 3:5 And he fixed his attention on them, expecting to receive something from them.
Acts 3:6 But Peter said, In the name of Jesus Christ of Nazareth, rise up and walk!”
Acts 3:7 And he took him by the right hand and raised him up, and immediately his feet and ankles were made strong.
Acts 3:8 And leaping up, he stood and began to walk, and entered the temple with them, walking and leaping and praising God.
Acts 3:9 And all the people saw him walking and praising God,
Acts 3:10 and recognized him as the one who sat at the Beautiful Gate of the temple, asking for alms. And they were filled with wonder and amazement at what had happened to him.
Acts 3:11  the portico called Solomon's.
Acts 3:12 And when Peter saw it he addressed the people: “Men of Israel, why do you wonder at this, or why do you stare at us, as though by our own power or piety we have made him walk?
Acts 3:13  when he had decided to release him.
Acts 3:14 But you denied asked for a murderer to be granted to you,
Acts 3:15 and you killed whom God raised from the dead. To this we are witnesses.
Acts 3:16 And  has given the man this perfect health in the presence of you all.
Acts 3:17 “And now, brothers, I know that you acted in ignorance, as did also your rulers.
Acts 3:18 But what God suffer, he thus fulfilled.
Acts 3:19  your sins may be blotted out,
Acts 3:20 that times of refreshing may come from the presence of the Lord, and that he may send the Christ appointed for you, Jesus,
Acts 3:21  God spoke by the mouth of his holy prophets long ago.
Acts 3:22 Moses said, ‘The Lord God will raise up for you to him in whatever he tells you.
Acts 3:23 And it shall be that every soul who does not listen to that prophet shall be destroyed from the people.’
Acts 3:24 And all the prophets who have spoken, from Samuel and those who came after him, also proclaimed these days.
Acts 3:25  ‘And in your offspring shall all the families of the earth be blessed.’
Acts 3:26  by turning every one of you from your wickedness.”
Acts 4:1 And as they were speaking to the people, the priests and the Sadducees came upon them,
Acts 4:2 greatly annoyed because they were teaching the people and proclaiming in Jesus the resurrection from the dead.
Acts 4:3 And they arrested them and put them in custody until the next day, for it was already evening.
Acts 4:4 But many of those who had heard the word believed, and the number of the men came to about five thousand.
Acts 4:5 On the next day their rulers and elders and scribes gathered together in Jerusalem,
Acts 4:6 with Caiaphas and John and Alexander, and all who were of the high-priestly family.
Acts 4:7 And when they had set them in the midst, they inquired, by what name did you do this?”
Acts 4:8 Then Peter, filled with the Holy Spirit, said to them, “Rulers of the people and elders,
Acts 4:9 if we are being examined today concerning a good deed done to a crippled man, by what means this man has been healed,
Acts 4:10 let it be known to all of you and to all the people of Israel that whom God raised from the dead — by him this man is standing before you well.
Acts 4:11
Acts 4:12 And there is  by which we must be saved.”
Acts 4:13  Now when they saw the boldness of Peter and John, and perceived that they were uneducated, common men, they were astonished. And they recognized that they had been with Jesus.
Acts 4:14 But seeing the man who was healed they had nothing to say in opposition.
Acts 4:15 But when they had commanded them to leave the council, they conferred with one another,
Acts 4:16 saying, a notable sign has been performed through them is evident to all the inhabitants of Jerusalem, and we cannot deny it.
Acts 4:17 But in order that it may spread no further among the people, let us warn them to speak no more to anyone in this name.”
Acts 4:18 So they called them and charged them not to speak or teach at all in the name of Jesus.
Acts 4:19 But Peter and John answered them, “Whether it is right in the sight of God to listen to you rather than to God, you must judge,
Acts 4:20 for we have seen and heard.”
Acts 4:21 And when they had further threatened them, they let them go, finding no way to punish them, for what had happened.
Acts 4:22 For the man on whom this sign of healing was performed was more than forty years old.
Acts 4:23 When they were released, they went to their friends and reported what the chief priests and the elders had said to them.
Acts 4:24 And when they heard it, they lifted their voices who made the heaven and the earth and the sea and everything in them,
Acts 4:25 who through the mouth of our father David, your servant,“‘Why did the Gentiles rage, and the peoples plot in vain?
Acts 4:26 The kings of the earth set themselves, and  —
Acts 4:27 for truly in this city there were gathered together against your the peoples of Israel,
Acts 4:28  your plan had predestined to take place.
Acts 4:29 And now, Lord, boldness,
Acts 4:30 while holy servant Jesus.”
Acts 4:31 And when they had prayed, continued to speak the word of God with boldness.
Acts 4:32 Now the full number of those who believed were of they had everything in common.
Acts 4:33 And with great great grace was upon them all.
Acts 4:34  as many as were owners of lands or houses sold them and brought the proceeds of what was sold
Acts 4:35 and it was distributed to each as any had need.
Acts 4:36 Thus Joseph, who was also called by the apostles Barnabas (which means son of encouragement), a Levite, a native of Cyprus,
Acts 4:37 sold a field that belonged to him and brought the money and laid it at the apostles' feet.
Acts 5:1 But a man named Ananias, with his wife Sapphira, sold a piece of property,
Acts 5:2 and with his wife's knowledge laid it at the apostles' feet.
Acts 5:3 But Peter said, “Ananias, why has to keep back for yourself part of the proceeds of the land?
Acts 5:4 While it remained unsold, did it not remain your own? And after it was sold, was it not at your disposal? Why is it that you have contrived this deed in your heart? You have not lied to man but to God.”
Acts 5:5 When Ananias heard these words, he great fear came upon all who heard of it.
Acts 5:6 The young men rose and wrapped him up and carried him out and buried him.
Acts 5:7 After an interval of about three hours his wife came in, not knowing what had happened.
Acts 5:8 And Peter said to her, “Tell me whether you  sold the land for so much.” And she said, “Yes, for so much.”
Acts 5:9 But Peter said to her, “How is it that you have agreed together the Spirit of the Lord? Behold, the feet of those who have buried your husband are at the door, and they will carry you out.”
Acts 5:10 Immediately she fell down at his feet and breathed her last. When the young men came in they found her dead, and they carried her out and buried her beside her husband.
Acts 5:11 And great fear came upon the whole church and upon all who heard of these things.
Acts 5:12 Now many signs and wonders were regularly done among the people Solomon's Portico.
Acts 5:13 None of the rest dared join them, but the people held them in high esteem.
Acts 5:14 And more than ever believers were added to the Lord, multitudes of both men and women,
Acts 5:15  at least his shadow might fall on some of them.
Acts 5:16 The people also gathered from the towns around Jerusalem, bringing the sick and those afflicted with unclean spirits, and they were all healed.
Acts 5:17 But the high priest rose up, and all who were with him (that is, the party of jealousy
Acts 5:18 they arrested the apostles and put them in the public prison.
Acts 5:19 But during the night opened the prison doors and brought them out, and said,
Acts 5:20 “Go and stand in the temple and speak to the people all Life.”
Acts 5:21 And when they heard this, at daybreak and began to teach. Now when the high priest came, and those who were with him, they called together the council, all the senate of the people of Israel, and sent to the prison to have them brought.
Acts 5:22 But when the officers came, they did not find them in the prison, so they returned and reported,
Acts 5:23 “We found the prison securely locked and the guards standing at the doors, but when we opened them we found no one inside.”
Acts 5:24 Now when the captain of the temple and the chief priests heard these words, they were greatly perplexed about them, wondering what this would come to.
Acts 5:25 And someone came and told them, “Look! The men whom you put in prison are standing in the temple and teaching the people.”
Acts 5:26 Then they were afraid of being stoned by the people.
Acts 5:27 And when they had brought them, they set them before the council. And the high priest questioned them,
Acts 5:28 saying, intend to bring this man's blood upon us.”
Acts 5:29 But Peter and the apostles answered, “We must obey God rather than men.
Acts 5:30  a tree.
Acts 5:31 God exalted forgiveness of sins.
Acts 5:32 And whom God has given to those who obey him.”
Acts 5:33 When they heard this, they were enraged and wanted to kill them.
Acts 5:34 But a Pharisee in the council named a teacher of the law held in honor by all the people, stood up and gave orders to put the men outside for a little while.
Acts 5:35 And he said to them, “Men of Israel, take care what you are about to do with these men.
Acts 5:36 For claiming to be somebody, and a number of men, about four hundred, joined him. He was killed, and all who followed him were dispersed and came to nothing.
Acts 5:37 After him Judas the Galilean rose up in the days of the census and drew away some of the people after him. He too perished, and all who followed him were scattered.
Acts 5:38 So in the present case I tell you, keep away from these men and let them alone, for if this plan or this undertaking is of man, it will fail;
Acts 5:39 but might even be found opposing God!” So they took his advice,
Acts 5:40 and they beat them and charged them not to speak in the name of Jesus, and let them go.
Acts 5:41 Then they left the presence of the council, the name.
Acts 5:42 And every day, that the Christ is Jesus.
Acts 6:1 Now in these days the daily distribution.
Acts 6:2 And the twelve summoned the full number of the disciples and said, “It is not right that we should give up preaching the word of God to serve tables.
Acts 6:3  full of the Spirit and of wisdom, whom we will appoint to this duty.
Acts 6:4 But we will devote ourselves to prayer and to the ministry of the word.”
Acts 6:5 And what they said pleased the whole gathering, and they chose Stephen, a proselyte of Antioch.
Acts 6:6 These they set before the apostles, and laid their hands on them.
Acts 6:7 And the faith.
Acts 6:8 And Stephen, full of grace and power, was doing great wonders and signs among the people.
Acts 6:9 Then some of those who belonged to the synagogue of the Freedmen (as it was called), and of the Cyrenians, and of the Alexandrians, and of those from Cilicia and Asia, rose up and disputed with Stephen.
Acts 6:10 But they could not withstand the wisdom and the Spirit with which he was speaking.
Acts 6:11 Then they secretly instigated men who said, “We have heard him speak blasphemous words against Moses and God.”
Acts 6:12 And they stirred up the people and the elders and the scribes, and they came upon him and seized him and brought him before the council,
Acts 6:13 and they this holy place and the law,
Acts 6:14 for we have heard him say that this Jesus of Nazareth the customs that Moses delivered to us.”
Acts 6:15 And gazing at him, all who sat in the council saw that his face was like the face of an angel.
Acts 7:1 And the high priest said, “Are these things so?”
Acts 7:2 And Stephen said:  before he lived in Haran,
Acts 7:3 and said to him, ‘Go out from your land and from your kindred and go into the land that I will show you.’
Acts 7:4  God removed him from there into this land in which you are now living.
Acts 7:5 Yet he gave him no inheritance in it, not even a foot's length, but promised though he had no child.
Acts 7:6 And God spoke to this effect — that four hundred years.
Acts 7:7 ‘But and worship me in this place.’
Acts 7:8 And Jacob of the twelve patriarchs.
Acts 7:9 “And the patriarchs, God was with him
Acts 7:10 and rescued him out of all his afflictions and who made him ruler over Egypt and over all his household.
Acts 7:11 Now there came a famine throughout all Egypt and Canaan, and great affliction, and our fathers could find no food.
Acts 7:12  But when Jacob heard that there was grain in Egypt, he sent out our fathers on their first visit.
Acts 7:13 And Joseph's family became known to Pharaoh.
Acts 7:14 And seventy-five persons in all.
Acts 7:15 And and our fathers,
Acts 7:16 and Abraham had bought for a sum of silver from the sons of Hamor in Shechem.
Acts 7:17 “But the people increased and multiplied in Egypt
Acts 7:18 until there arose over Egypt another king who did not know Joseph.
Acts 7:19  so that they would not be kept alive.
Acts 7:20  At this time Moses was born; and he was beautiful in God's sight. And he was brought up for three months in his father's house,
Acts 7:21 and when he was exposed, Pharaoh's daughter adopted him and brought him up as her own son.
Acts 7:22 And Moses mighty in his words and deeds.
Acts 7:23 “When he was forty years old, it came into his heart to visit his brothers, the children of Israel.
Acts 7:24 And seeing one of them being wronged, he defended the oppressed man and avenged him by striking down the Egyptian.
Acts 7:25 He supposed that his brothers would understand that God was giving them salvation by his hand, but they did not understand.
Acts 7:26  And on the following day he appeared to them as they were quarreling and tried to reconcile them, saying, ‘Men, you are brothers. Why do you wrong each other?’
Acts 7:27 But the man who was wronging his neighbor thrust him aside, saying, ‘Who made you a ruler and a judge over us?
Acts 7:28 Do you want to kill me as you killed the Egyptian yesterday?’
Acts 7:29 At this retort where he became the father of two sons.
Acts 7:30 “Now when forty years had passed, in the wilderness of Mount Sinai, in a flame of fire in a bush.
Acts 7:31 When Moses saw it, he was amazed at the sight, and as he drew near to look, there came the voice of the Lord:
Acts 7:32  ‘I am the God of your fathers, the God of Abraham and of Isaac and of Jacob.’ And Moses trembled and did not dare to look.
Acts 7:33 Then the Lord said to him, ‘Take off the sandals from your feet, for the place where you are standing is holy ground.
Acts 7:34  And now come, I will send you to Egypt.’
Acts 7:35 “This Moses, whom they rejected, by the hand of the angel who appeared to him in the bush.
Acts 7:36  forty years.
Acts 7:37 This is the Moses who said to the Israelites, ‘God will raise up for you a prophet like me from your brothers.’
Acts 7:38 This is the one oracles to give to us.
Acts 7:39 Our fathers refused to obey him, but thrust him aside, and in their hearts they turned to Egypt,
Acts 7:40 saying to Aaron, ‘Make for us gods who will go before us. As for this Moses who led us out from the land of Egypt, we do not know what has become of him.’
Acts 7:41 And the works of their hands.
Acts 7:42 Butduring the forty years in the wilderness, O house of Israel?
Acts 7:43 You took up the tent of Moloch and the star of your god Rephan, the images that you made to worship; and I will send you into exile beyond Babylon.’
Acts 7:44 “Our fathers had directed him to make it, according to the pattern that he had seen.
Acts 7:45 Our fathers in turn until the days of David,
Acts 7:46
Acts 7:47 But it was Solomon who built a house for him.
Acts 7:48  in houses made by hands, as the prophet says,
Acts 7:49 and the earth is my footstool. What kind of house will you build for me, says the Lord, or what is the place of my rest?
Acts 7:50 Did not my hand make all these things?’
Acts 7:51  As your fathers did, so do you.
Acts 7:52  whom you have now betrayed and murdered,
Acts 7:53 you who received the law did not keep it.”
Acts 7:54 Now when they heard these things ground their teeth at him.
Acts 7:55 But he, at the right hand of God.
Acts 7:56 And he said, “Behold, I see at the right hand of God.”
Acts 7:57 But they cried out with a loud voice and stopped their ears and rushed together  at him.
Acts 7:58 Then at the feet of a young man named Saul.
Acts 7:59 And as they were stoning Stephen, receive my spirit.”
Acts 7:60 And he fell asleep.
Acts 8:1 And they were all scattered throughout the regions of Judea and Samaria, except the apostles.
Acts 8:2 Devout men buried Stephen and made great lamentation over him.
Acts 8:3 But dragged off men and women and committed them to prison.
Acts 8:4 Now those who were scattered went about preaching the word.
Acts 8:5   of Samaria and proclaimed to them the Christ.
Acts 8:6  and saw the signs that he did.
Acts 8:7 For unclean spirits, crying out with a loud voice, came out of many who had them, and many who were paralyzed or lame were healed.
Acts 8:8 So there was much joy in that city.
Acts 8:9 But there was a man named Simon, saying that he himself was somebody great.
Acts 8:10 They all paid attention to him, from the least to the greatest, saying, Great.”
Acts 8:11 And they paid attention to him because for a long time he had amazed them with his magic.
Acts 8:12 But when they were baptized, both men and women.
Acts 8:13 Even Simon himself believed, and after being baptized he continued with Philip. And he was amazed.
Acts 8:14 Now when Samaria had received the word of God, they sent to them Peter and John,
Acts 8:15 who came down and prayed for them that they might receive the Holy Spirit,
Acts 8:16 for they had only been baptized in the name of the Lord Jesus.
Acts 8:17 Then they received the Holy Spirit.
Acts 8:18 Now when Simon saw that the Spirit was given through the laying on of the apostles' hands, he offered them money,
Acts 8:19 saying, “Give me this power also, so that anyone on whom I lay my hands may receive the Holy Spirit.”
Acts 8:20 But Peter said to him, with money!
Acts 8:21 You have neither part nor lot in this matter, for your heart is not right before God.
Acts 8:22 Repent, therefore, of this wickedness of yours, and pray to the Lord that, if possible, the intent of your heart may be forgiven you.
Acts 8:23 For I see that you are in the bond of iniquity.”
Acts 8:24 And Simon answered, “Pray for me to the Lord, that nothing of what you have said may come upon me.”
Acts 8:25 Now when they had testified and spoken the word of the Lord, they returned to Jerusalem, preaching the gospel to many villages of the Samaritans.
Acts 8:26 Now  to the road that goes down from Jerusalem to Gaza.” This is a desert place.
Acts 8:27 And he rose and went. And there was an He had come to Jerusalem to worship
Acts 8:28 and was returning, seated in his chariot, and he was reading the prophet Isaiah.
Acts 8:29 And the Spirit said to Philip, “Go over and join this chariot.”
Acts 8:30 So Philip ran to him and heard him reading Isaiah the prophet and asked, “Do you understand what you are reading?”
Acts 8:31 And he said, he invited Philip to come up and sit with him.
Acts 8:32 Now the passage of the Scripture that he was reading was this: “Like a sheep he was led to the slaughter and like a lamb before its shearer is silent, so he opens not his mouth.
Acts 8:33 In his humiliation justice was denied him. Who can describe his generation? For his life is taken away from the earth.”
Acts 8:34 And the eunuch said to Philip, “About whom, I ask you, does the prophet say this, about himself or about someone else?”
Acts 8:35 Then Philip opened his mouth, and he told him the good news about Jesus.
Acts 8:36 And as they were going along the road they came to some water, and the eunuch said, “See, here is water!
Acts 8:37
Acts 8:38 And he commanded the chariot to stop, and they both went down into the water, Philip and the eunuch, and he baptized him.
Acts 8:39 And when they came up out of the water, carried Philip away, and the eunuch saw him no more, and went on his way rejoicing.
Acts 8:40 But Philip found himself at Azotus, and as he passed through he preached the gospel to all the towns until he came to Caesarea.
Acts 9:1 But Saul, the high priest
Acts 9:2 and asked him for letters the Way, men or women, he might bring them bound to Jerusalem.
Acts 9:3  Now as he went on his way, he approached Damascus, and suddenly a light from heaven shone around him.
Acts 9:4 And falling to the ground, he heard a voice saying to him, “Saul, Saul, why are you persecuting me?”
Acts 9:5 And he said, “Who are you, Lord?” And he said, “I am Jesus, whom you are persecuting.
Acts 9:6 But what you are to do.”
Acts 9:7  hearing the voice but seeing no one.
Acts 9:8 Saul rose from the ground, and although his eyes were opened, he saw nothing. So they led him by the hand and brought him into Damascus.
Acts 9:9 And for three days he was without sight, and neither ate nor drank.
Acts 9:10 Now there was a disciple at Damascus named “Here I am, Lord.”
Acts 9:11 And the Lord said to him, “Rise and go to the street called Straight, and at the house of Judas look for a man of Tarsus named Saul, for behold, he is praying,
Acts 9:12 and he has seen in a vision a man named Ananias come in and lay his hands on him so that he might regain his sight.”
Acts 9:13 But Ananias answered, “Lord, I have heard from many about this man, saints at Jerusalem.
Acts 9:14 And here he has authority from call on your name.”
Acts 9:15 But the Lord said to him, “Go, for kings and the children of Israel.
Acts 9:16 For for the sake of my name.”
Acts 9:17 So be filled with the Holy Spirit.”
Acts 9:18 And immediately something like scales fell from his eyes, and he rose and was baptized;
Acts 9:19 and some days he was with the disciples at Damascus.
Acts 9:20 And immediately he proclaimed Jesus in the synagogues, saying, “He is the Son of God.”
Acts 9:21 And all who heard him were amazed and said, “Is not this the man who in Jerusalem of those who called upon this name? And has he not come here for this purpose, to bring them bound before the chief priests?”
Acts 9:22 But Saul that Jesus was the Christ.
Acts 9:23   plotted to kill him,
Acts 9:24 but their They were watching the gates day and night in order to kill him,
Acts 9:25 but his disciples took him by night and  lowering him in a basket.
Acts 9:26 And when he had come to Jerusalem, he attempted to join the disciples. And they were all afraid of him, for they did not believe that he was a disciple.
Acts 9:27 But preached boldly in the name of Jesus.
Acts 9:28 So he went in and out among them at Jerusalem, preaching boldly in the name of the Lord.
Acts 9:29 And he spoke and disputed against they were seeking to kill him.
Acts 9:30 And when to Tarsus.
Acts 9:31 So it multiplied.
Acts 9:32 Now as Peter went here and there among them all, he came down also to the saints who lived at Lydda.
Acts 9:33 There he found a man named Aeneas, bedridden for eight years, who was paralyzed.
Acts 9:34 And Peter said to him, “Aeneas, Jesus Christ heals you; rise and make your bed.” And immediately he rose.
Acts 9:35  they turned to the Lord.
Acts 9:36 Now there was in good works and acts of charity.
Acts 9:37 In those days she became ill and died, and when they had washed her, they laid her in an upper room.
Acts 9:38 Since Lydda was near Joppa, the disciples, hearing that Peter was there, sent two men to him, urging him, “Please come to us without delay.”
Acts 9:39 So Peter rose and went with them. And when he arrived, they took him to  and other garments that Dorcas made while she was with them.
Acts 9:40 But Peter he said, “Tabitha, arise.” And she opened her eyes, and when she saw Peter she sat up.
Acts 9:41 And he gave her his hand and raised her up. Then, calling the saints and widows, he presented her alive.
Acts 9:42 And it became known throughout all Joppa, and many believed in the Lord.
Acts 9:43 And he stayed in Joppa for many days with one Simon, a tanner.
Acts 10:1 At Caesarea there was a man named Cornelius, a centurion of what was known as the Italian Cohort,
Acts 10:2 a devout man who feared God with all his household, gave alms generously to the people, and prayed continually to God.
Acts 10:3  an angel of God come in and say to him, “Cornelius.”
Acts 10:4 And he stared at him in terror and said, “What is it, Lord?” And he said to him, “Your prayers and your alms as a memorial before God.
Acts 10:5 And now send men to Joppa and bring one Simon who is called Peter.
Acts 10:6 He is lodging with one Simon, a tanner, whose house is by the sea.”
Acts 10:7 When the angel who spoke to him had departed, he called two of his servants and a devout soldier from among those who attended him,
Acts 10:8 and having related everything to them, he sent them to Joppa.
Acts 10:9 The next day, as they were on their journey and approaching the city,  to pray.
Acts 10:10 And he became hungry and wanted something to eat, but while they were preparing it, he fell into a trance
Acts 10:11 and saw the heavens opened and something like a great sheet descending, being let down by its four corners upon the earth.
Acts 10:12 In it were all kinds of animals and reptiles and birds of the air.
Acts 10:13 And there came a voice to him: “Rise, Peter; kill and eat.”
Acts 10:14 But Peter said, “By no means, Lord; unclean.”
Acts 10:15 And the voice came to him again a second time,  “What God has made clean, do not call common.”
Acts 10:16 This happened three times, and the thing was taken up at once to heaven.
Acts 10:17 Now while Peter was inwardly perplexed as to what the men who were sent by Cornelius, having made inquiry for Simon's house, stood at the gate
Acts 10:18 and called out to ask whether Simon who was called Peter was lodging there.
Acts 10:19 And while Peter was pondering the Spirit said to him, “Behold, three men are looking for you.
Acts 10:20 Rise and go down and  for I have sent them.”
Acts 10:21 And Peter went down to the men and said, “I am the one you are looking for. What is the reason for your coming?”
Acts 10:22 And they said, “Cornelius, a centurion, an upright and to hear what you have to say.”
Acts 10:23 So he invited them in to be his guests. The next day he rose and went away with them, and the brothers from Joppa accompanied him.
Acts 10:24 And on the following day they entered Caesarea. Cornelius was expecting them and had called together his relatives and close friends.
Acts 10:25 When Peter entered, Cornelius met him and worshiped him.
Acts 10:26 But Peter lifted him up, saying, “Stand up; I too am a man.”
Acts 10:27 And as he talked with him, he went in and found many persons gathered.
Acts 10:28 And he said to them, “You yourselves know how unlawful it is for a Jew God has shown me that I should not call any person common or unclean.
Acts 10:29 So when I was sent for, I came without objection. I ask then why you sent for me.”
Acts 10:30 And Cornelius said, a man stood before me in bright clothing
Acts 10:31 and said, ‘Cornelius, your prayer has been heard and your alms have been remembered before God.
Acts 10:32 Send therefore to Joppa and ask for Simon who is called Peter. He is lodging in the house of Simon, a tanner, by the sea.’
Acts 10:33 So I sent for you at once, and you have been kind enough to come. Now therefore we are all here in the presence of God to hear all that you have been commanded by the Lord.”
Acts 10:34 So Peter opened his mouth and said: “Truly I understand that shows no partiality,
Acts 10:35 but does what is right is acceptable to him.
Acts 10:36 As forhe is Lord of all),
Acts 10:37 you yourselves know what happened throughout all Judea, from Galilee after the baptism that John proclaimed:
Acts 10:38 how for God was with him.
Acts 10:39 And They put him to death by hanging him on a tree,
Acts 10:40 but appear,
Acts 10:41  witnesses, who ate and drank with him after he rose from the dead.
Acts 10:42 And of the living and the dead.
Acts 10:43  through his name.”
Acts 10:44 While Peter was still saying these things, the Holy Spirit fell on all who heard the word.
Acts 10:45 And the believers from among was poured out even on the Gentiles.
Acts 10:46 For they were hearing them speaking in tongues and extolling God. Then Peter declared,
Acts 10:47  just as we have?”
Acts 10:48 And he to be baptized in the name of Jesus Christ. Then they asked him to remain for some days.
Acts 11:1 Now the apostles and  who were throughout Judea heard that the Gentiles also had received the word of God.
Acts 11:2 So when Peter went up to Jerusalem,  criticized him, saying,
Acts 11:3  ate with them.”
Acts 11:4 But Peter began and explained it to them in order:
Acts 11:5  “I was in the city of Joppa praying, and in a trance I saw a vision, something like a great sheet descending, being let down from heaven by its four corners, and it came down to me.
Acts 11:6 Looking at it closely, I observed animals and beasts of prey and reptiles and birds of the air.
Acts 11:7 And I heard a voice saying to me, ‘Rise, Peter; kill and eat.’
Acts 11:8 But I said, ‘By no means, Lord; for nothing common or unclean has ever entered my mouth.’
Acts 11:9 But the voice answered a second time from heaven, ‘What God has made clean, do not call common.’
Acts 11:10 This happened three times, and all was drawn up again into heaven.
Acts 11:11 And behold, at that very moment three men arrived at the house in which we were, sent to me from Caesarea.
Acts 11:12 And the Spirit told me to go with them, These six brothers also accompanied me, and we entered the man's house.
Acts 11:13 And he told us how he had seen the angel stand in his house and say, ‘Send to Joppa and bring Simon who is called Peter;
Acts 11:14  you will be saved, you and all your household.’
Acts 11:15 As I began to speak, just as on us at the beginning.
Acts 11:16 And I remembered the word of the Lord, how he said,  ‘John baptized with water, but you will be baptized with the Holy Spirit.’
Acts 11:17 If then that I could stand in God's way?”
Acts 11:18 When they heard these things they fell silent. And they repentance that leads to life.”
Acts 11:19  Now those who were scattered because of the persecution that arose over Stephen traveled as far as Phoenicia and Cyprus and Antioch, speaking the word to no one except Jews.
Acts 11:20 But there were some of them, men of Cyprus and Cyrene, who on coming to Antioch spoke to the Hellenists preaching the Lord Jesus.
Acts 11:21 And turned to the Lord.
Acts 11:22 The report of this came to the ears of the church in Jerusalem, and they sent Barnabas to Antioch.
Acts 11:23 When he came and saw with steadfast purpose,
Acts 11:24 for he was a good man, were added to the Lord.
Acts 11:25 So Barnabas went to Tarsus to look for Saul,
Acts 11:26 and when he had found him, he brought him to Antioch. For a whole year they met with the church and taught a great many people. And in Antioch the disciples were first called Christians.
Acts 11:27 Now in these days prophets came down from Jerusalem to Antioch.
Acts 11:28 And one of them named Claudius).
Acts 11:29 So the disciples determined, every one according to his ability,  living in Judea.
Acts 11:30  the elders by the hand of Barnabas and Saul.
Acts 12:1 About that time Herod the king laid violent hands on some who belonged to the church.
Acts 12:2 He killed with the sword,
Acts 12:3 and when he saw the days of Unleavened Bread.
Acts 12:4 And when he had seized him, he put him squads of soldiers to guard him, intending after the Passover to bring him out to the people.
Acts 12:5 So Peter was kept in prison, but earnest prayer for him was made to God by the church.
Acts 12:6 Now when Herod was about to bring him out, on that very night, Peter was sleeping between two soldiers, bound with two chains, and sentries before the door were guarding the prison.
Acts 12:7 And behold, the chains fell off his hands.
Acts 12:8 And the angel said to him, “Dress yourself and put on your sandals.” And he did so. And he said to him, “Wrap your cloak around you and follow me.”
Acts 12:9 And he went out and followed him. He did not know that what was being done by the angel was real, but thought he was seeing a vision.
Acts 12:10 When they had passed the first and the second guard, they came to the iron gate leading into the city. It opened for them of its own accord, and they went out and went along one street, and immediately the angel left him.
Acts 12:11 When Peter rescued me from the hand of Herod and from all that the Jewish people were expecting.”
Acts 12:12 When he realized this, he went to the house of Mary, the mother of were praying.
Acts 12:13 And when he knocked at the door of the gateway, a servant girl named Rhoda came to answer.
Acts 12:14 Recognizing Peter's voice, in her joy she did not open the gate but ran in and reported that Peter was standing at the gate.
Acts 12:15 They said to her, “You are out of your mind.” But she kept insisting that it was so, and they kept saying, “It is his angel!”
Acts 12:16 But Peter continued knocking, and when they opened, they saw him and were amazed.
Acts 12:17 But  Then he departed and went to another place.
Acts 12:18 Now when day came, there was no little disturbance among the soldiers over what had become of Peter.
Acts 12:19 And after Herod searched for him and did not find him, he examined the sentries and ordered that they should be put to death. Then he went down from Judea to Caesarea and spent time there.
Acts 12:20 Now Herod was angry with the people of Tyre and Sidon, and they came to him with one accord, and their country depended on the king's country for food.
Acts 12:21 On an appointed day Herod put on his royal robes, took his seat upon the throne, and delivered an oration to them.
Acts 12:22 And the people were shouting, “The voice of a god, and not of a man!”
Acts 12:23 Immediately he did not give God the glory, and he was eaten by worms and breathed his last.
Acts 12:24 But the word of God increased and multiplied.
Acts 12:25  John, whose other name was Mark.
Acts 13:1 Now there were in the church at Antioch Herod the tetrarch, and Saul.
Acts 13:2 While they were worshiping the Lord and fasting, for the work to which I have called them.”
Acts 13:3 Then after fasting and sent them off.
Acts 13:4 So, being sent out by the Holy Spirit, they went down to Seleucia, and from there they sailed to Cyprus.
Acts 13:5 When they arrived at Salamis, they proclaimed the word of God assist them.
Acts 13:6 When they had gone through the whole island as far as Paphos, they came upon a certain a Jewish false prophet named Bar-Jesus.
Acts 13:7 He was with the proconsul, Sergius Paulus, a man of intelligence, who summoned Barnabas and Saul and sought to hear the word of God.
Acts 13:8 But Elymas the the proconsul away from the faith.
Acts 13:9 But Saul, who was also called Paul, filled with the Holy Spirit, looked intently at him
Acts 13:10 and said, “You the straight paths of the Lord?
Acts 13:11 And now, behold, people to lead him by the hand.
Acts 13:12 Then the proconsul believed, when he saw what had occurred, for he was astonished at the teaching of the Lord.
Acts 13:13 Now Paul and his companions set sail from Paphos and came to Perga in Pamphylia. And to Jerusalem,
Acts 13:14 but they went on from Perga and came to Antioch in Pisidia. And they went into the synagogue and sat down.
Acts 13:15 After word of encouragement for the people, say it.”
Acts 13:16 So Paul stood up, and you who fear God, listen.
Acts 13:17  with uplifted arm he led them out of it.
Acts 13:18 And for about  them in the wilderness.
Acts 13:19 And he gave them their land as an inheritance.
Acts 13:20 All this took about 450 years. And after that Samuel the prophet.
Acts 13:21 Then the son of Kish, a man of the tribe of Benjamin, for forty years.
Acts 13:22 And who will do all my will.’
Acts 13:23  as he promised.
Acts 13:24 Before his coming, a baptism of repentance to all the people of Israel.
Acts 13:25 And as John was finishing his course, he said, ‘What do you suppose that I am? I am not he. No, but behold, after me one is coming, the sandals of whose feet I am not worthy to untie.’
Acts 13:26 “Brothers, sons of the family of Abraham, and those among you this salvation.
Acts 13:27 For those who live in Jerusalem and their rulers, because fulfilled them by condemning him.
Acts 13:28 And they asked Pilate to have him executed.
Acts 13:29 And when the tree and laid him in a tomb.
Acts 13:30 But God raised him from the dead,
Acts 13:31 and for many days his witnesses to the people.
Acts 13:32 And we bring you the good news that what God promised to the fathers,
Acts 13:33 “‘You are my Son, today I have begotten you.’
Acts 13:34 And as for the fact that he raised him from the dead, the holy and sure blessings of David.’
Acts 13:35 Therefore he says also in another psalm, “‘You will not let your Holy One see corruption.’
Acts 13:36 For David, after he had was laid with his fathers and saw corruption,
Acts 13:37 but he whom God raised up did not see corruption.
Acts 13:38 Let it be known to you therefore, brothers, forgiveness of sins is proclaimed to you,
Acts 13:39 and by him from which you could not be freed by the law of Moses.
Acts 13:40 Beware, therefore, lest what is said in the Prophets should come about:
Acts 13:41  “‘Look, you scoffers, be astounded and perish; for I am doing a work in your days, a work that you will not believe, even if one tells it to you.’”
Acts 13:42 As they went out, the people begged that these things might be told them the next Sabbath.
Acts 13:43 And after the meeting of the synagogue broke up, many Jews and the grace of God.
Acts 13:44 The next Sabbath almost the whole city gathered to hear the word of the Lord.
Acts 13:45  reviling him.
Acts 13:46 And Paul and Barnabas spoke out boldly, saying, “It was necessary that the word of God are turning to the Gentiles.
Acts 13:47  bring salvation to the ends of the earth.’”
Acts 13:48 And when the Gentiles heard this, they began rejoicing and glorifying the word of the Lord, and as many as were appointed to eternal life believed.
Acts 13:49 And the word of the Lord was spreading throughout the whole region.
Acts 13:50  drove them out of their district.
Acts 13:51 But they shook off the dust from their feet against them and went to Iconium.
Acts 13:52 And the disciples were filled with the Holy Spirit.
Acts 14:1 Now at Iconium they entered together into the Jewish synagogue and spoke in such a way that a great number of both Jews and Greeks believed.
Acts 14:2
Acts 14:3 So they remained for a long time, speaking boldly for granting signs and wonders to be done by their hands.
Acts 14:4 But the people of the city some sided with the Jews and some with the apostles.
Acts 14:5 When an attempt was made by both Gentiles and Jews, with their rulers, to stone them,
Acts 14:6 they learned of it and Lystra and Derbe, cities of Lycaonia, and to the surrounding country,
Acts 14:7 and there they continued to preach the gospel.
Acts 14:8 Now at Lystra there was a man sitting who could not use his feet. He was crippled from birth and had never walked.
Acts 14:9 He listened to Paul speaking. And Paul, looking intently at him and
Acts 14:10 said in a loud voice, “Stand upright on your feet.” And he sprang up and began walking.
Acts 14:11 And when the crowds saw what Paul had done, they lifted up their voices, saying in Lycaonian, “The gods have come down to us in the likeness of men!”
Acts 14:12 Barnabas they called Zeus, and Paul, Hermes, because he was the chief speaker.
Acts 14:13 And the priest of wanted to offer sacrifice with the crowds.
Acts 14:14 But when the apostles Barnabas and Paul heard of it, they tore their garments and rushed out into the crowd, crying out,
Acts 14:15 “Men, who made the heaven and the earth and the sea and all that is in them.
Acts 14:16 In past generations he to walk in their own ways.
Acts 14:17 Yet gladness.”
Acts 14:18 Even with these words they scarcely restrained the people from offering sacrifice to them.
Acts 14:19  they stoned Paul and dragged him out of the city, supposing that he was dead.
Acts 14:20 But when the disciples gathered about him, he rose up and entered the city, and on the next day he went on with Barnabas to Derbe.
Acts 14:21 When they had preached the gospel to that city and had made many disciples, they returned to Lystra and to Iconium and to Antioch,
Acts 14:22  through many tribulations we must enter the kingdom of God.
Acts 14:23 And when they had they committed them to the Lord in whom they had believed.
Acts 14:24 Then they passed through Pisidia and came to Pamphylia.
Acts 14:25 And when they had spoken the word in Perga, they went down to Attalia,
Acts 14:26 and from there they sailed to Antioch, commended to the grace of God for the work that they had fulfilled.
Acts 14:27 And when they arrived and gathered the church together, a door of faith to the Gentiles.
Acts 14:28 And they remained no little time with the disciples.
Acts 15:1  according to the custom of Moses, you cannot be saved.”
Acts 15:2 And after Paul and Barnabas had no small dissension and the apostles and the elders about this question.
Acts 15:3 So,
Acts 15:4  they declared all that God had done with them.
Acts 15:5 But some believers who belonged to to circumcise them and to order them to keep the law of Moses.”
Acts 15:6  apostles and the elders were gathered together to consider this matter.
Acts 15:7 And after there had been much the gospel and believe.
Acts 15:8 And God, by giving them the Holy Spirit just as he did to us,
Acts 15:9 and by faith.
Acts 15:10 Now, therefore, why that neither our fathers nor we have been able to bear?
Acts 15:11 But we just as they will.”
Acts 15:12 And all the assembly fell silent, and they listened to Barnabas and Paul as they related what signs and wonders God had done through them among the Gentiles.
Acts 15:13 After they finished speaking, James replied, “Brothers, listen to me.
Acts 15:14  a people for his name.
Acts 15:15 And with this the words of the prophets agree, just as it is written,
Acts 15:16  “‘After this I will return, and I will rebuild the tent of David that has fallen; I will rebuild its ruins, and I will restore it,
Acts 15:17 that the remnant who are called by my name, says the Lord, who makes these things
Acts 15:18  known from of old.’
Acts 15:19 Therefore turn to God,
Acts 15:20 but should write to them blood.
Acts 15:21 For from ancient generations Moses has had in every city those who proclaim him, for he is read every Sabbath in the synagogues.”
Acts 15:22 Then it seemed good to the brothers,
Acts 15:23 with the following letter: greetings.
Acts 15:24 Since we have heard that  with words, unsettling your minds, although we gave them no instructions,
Acts 15:25 it has seemed good to us, having come beloved Barnabas and Paul,
Acts 15:26  risked their lives for the name of our Lord Jesus Christ.
Acts 15:27 We have therefore sent Judas and Silas, who themselves will tell you the same things by word of mouth.
Acts 15:28 For it has seemed good to lay on you no greater burden than these requirements:
Acts 15:29  what has been sacrificed to idols, and from blood, and from what has been strangled, and from sexual immorality. If you keep yourselves from these, you will do well. Farewell.”
Acts 15:30 So when they were sent off, they went down to Antioch, and having gathered the congregation together, they delivered the letter.
Acts 15:31 And when they had read it, they rejoiced because of its encouragement.
Acts 15:32 And Judas and Silas, who were themselves the brothers with many words.
Acts 15:33 And after they had spent some time, they were sent off
Acts 15:34
Acts 15:35 But Paul and Barnabas remained in Antioch, teaching and preaching the word of the Lord, with many others also.
Acts 15:36 And after some days Paul said to Barnabas, “Let us return and visit in every city where we proclaimed the word of the Lord, and see how they are.”
Acts 15:37 Now Barnabas wanted to take with them John called Mark.
Acts 15:38 But Paul thought best not to take with them one who had withdrawn from them in Pamphylia and had not gone with them to the work.
Acts 15:39 And there arose Barnabas took Mark with him and sailed away to Cyprus,
Acts 15:40 but Paul chose Silas and departed, the grace of the Lord.
Acts 15:41 And he went through Syria and Cilicia, strengthening the churches.
Acts 16:1 Paul the son of a Jewish woman who was a believer, but his father was a Greek.
Acts 16:2 He was well spoken of by  at Lystra and Iconium.
Acts 16:3 Paul wanted Timothy to accompany him, and he took him and circumcised him because of the Jews who were in those places, for they all knew that his father was a Greek.
Acts 16:4 As they went on their way through the cities, they delivered to them for observance the apostles and elders who were in Jerusalem.
Acts 16:5  daily.
Acts 16:6 And they went through the region of Phrygia and Galatia, having been forbidden by the Holy Spirit to speak the word in Asia.
Acts 16:7 And when they had come up to Mysia, they attempted to go into Bithynia, but the Spirit of Jesus did not allow them.
Acts 16:8 So, passing by Mysia, they went down to Troas.
Acts 16:9 And a vision appeared to Paul in the night: a man of Macedonia was standing there, urging him and saying, “Come over to Macedonia and help us.”
Acts 16:10 And when Paul we sought to go on into Macedonia, concluding that God had called us to preach the gospel to them.
Acts 16:11 So, setting sail from Troas, we made a direct voyage to Samothrace, and the following day to Neapolis,
Acts 16:12 and from there to a Roman colony. We remained in this city some days.
Acts 16:13 And sat down and spoke to the women who had come together.
Acts 16:14 One who heard us was a woman named Lydia, from the city of Thyatira, a seller of purple goods, opened her heart to pay attention to what was said by Paul.
Acts 16:15 And after she was baptized, prevailed upon us.
Acts 16:16 As we were going to brought her owners much gain by fortune-telling.
Acts 16:17 She followed Paul and us, the way of salvation.”
Acts 16:18 And this she kept doing for many days. Paul, having become greatly annoyed, turned and said to the spirit, it came out that very hour.
Acts 16:19 But dragged them into the marketplace before the rulers.
Acts 16:20 And when they had brought them to the magistrates, they said, “These men are Jews, and they are disturbing our city.
Acts 16:21 They as Romans to accept or practice.”
Acts 16:22 The crowd joined in attacking them, and the magistrates tore the garments off them and gave orders to beat them with rods.
Acts 16:23 And when they had inflicted many blows upon them, they threw them into prison, ordering the jailer to keep them safely.
Acts 16:24 Having received this order, he put them into the inner the stocks.
Acts 16:25  About midnight Paul and Silas were praying and singing hymns to God, and the prisoners were listening to them,
Acts 16:26 and suddenly everyone's bonds were unfastened.
Acts 16:27 When the jailer woke and saw that the prison doors were open, he drew his sword and was about to kill himself, supposing that the prisoners had escaped.
Acts 16:28 But Paul cried with a loud voice, “Do not harm yourself, for we are all here.”
Acts 16:29 And the jailer fell down before Paul and Silas.
Acts 16:30 Then he brought them out and said, “Sirs, saved?”
Acts 16:31 And they said, and your household.”
Acts 16:32 And they spoke the word of the Lord to him and to all who were in his house.
Acts 16:33 And he took them was baptized at once, he and all his family.
Acts 16:34 Then he brought them up into his house and set food before them. And he rejoiced along with his entire household that he had believed in God.
Acts 16:35 But when it was day, the magistrates sent the police, saying, “Let those men go.”
Acts 16:36 And the jailer reported these words to Paul, saying, “The magistrates have sent to let you go. Therefore come out now and go in peace.”
Acts 16:37 But Paul said to them, “They have beaten us publicly, uncondemned, men who are Roman citizens, and have thrown us into prison; and do they now throw us out secretly? No! Let them come themselves and take us out.”
Acts 16:38 The police reported these words to the magistrates, and they were afraid when they heard that they were Roman citizens.
Acts 16:39 So they came and apologized to them. And they took them out and asked them to leave the city.
Acts 16:40 So they went out of the prison and visited the brothers, they encouraged them and departed.
Acts 17:1 Now when they had passed through Amphipolis and Apollonia, they came to Thessalonica, where there was a synagogue of the Jews.
Acts 17:2 And Paul went in, from the Scriptures,
Acts 17:3  to rise from the dead, and saying, “This Jesus, whom I proclaim to you, is the Christ.”
Acts 17:4 And Greeks and not a few of the leading women.
Acts 17:5  some wicked men of the rabble, they formed a mob, set the city in an uproar, and attacked the house of Jason, seeking to bring them out to the crowd.
Acts 17:6 And when they could not find them, they dragged Jason and some of the brothers before the city authorities, shouting, “These men who have turned the world upside down have come here also,
Acts 17:7 and Jason has received them, and they are all acting against another king, Jesus.”
Acts 17:8 And the people and the city authorities were disturbed when they heard these things.
Acts 17:9 And when they had taken money as security from Jason and the rest, they let them go.
Acts 17:10  went into the Jewish synagogue.
Acts 17:11 Now these Jews were more noble than those in Thessalonica; they received the word with all eagerness, examining the Scriptures daily to see if these things were so.
Acts 17:12  women of high standing as well as men.
Acts 17:13 But when the Jews from Thessalonica learned that the word of God was proclaimed by Paul at Berea also, they came there too, agitating and stirring up the crowds.
Acts 17:14 Then the brothers Timothy remained there.
Acts 17:15  for Silas and Timothy to come to him as soon as possible, they departed.
Acts 17:16 Now while Paul was waiting for them at Athens, his spirit was full of idols.
Acts 17:17 So he reasoned in the synagogue with the Jews and the devout persons, and in the marketplace every day with those who happened to be there.
Acts 17:18 Some of the Epicurean and Stoic philosophers also conversed with him. And some said, Jesus and the resurrection.
Acts 17:19 And they took him and brought him to new teaching is that you are presenting?
Acts 17:20 For you bring some strange things to our ears. We wish to know therefore what these things mean.”
Acts 17:21 Now all the Athenians and the foreigners who lived there would spend their time in nothing except telling or hearing something new.
Acts 17:22 So Paul, standing in the midst of the Areopagus, said: “Men of Athens, I perceive that in every way you are very religious.
Acts 17:23 For as I passed along and observed the objects of your worship, I found also an altar with this inscription: as unknown, this I proclaim to you.
Acts 17:24
Acts 17:25 nor is he served by human hands, life and breath and everything.
Acts 17:26 And the boundaries of their dwelling place,
Acts 17:27  Yet he is actually not far from each one of us,
Acts 17:28 for
Acts 17:29  we ought not to think that the divine being is like gold or silver or stone, an image formed by the art and imagination of man.
Acts 17:30  commands all people everywhere to repent,
Acts 17:31 because he has fixed by raising him from the dead.”
Acts 17:32 Now when they heard of “We will hear you again about this.”
Acts 17:33 So Paul went out from their midst.
Acts 17:34 But some men joined him and believed, among whom also were Dionysius the Areopagite and a woman named Damaris and others with them.
Acts 18:1 After this Paul  left Athens and went to Corinth.
Acts 18:2 And he found a Jew named Claudius had commanded all the Jews to leave Rome. And he went to see them,
Acts 18:3 and because he was of the same trade he stayed with them and worked, for they were tentmakers by trade.
Acts 18:4 And every Sabbath, and tried to persuade Jews and Greeks.
Acts 18:5  Jesus.
Acts 18:6 And when they opposed and reviled him, From now on I will go to the Gentiles.”
Acts 18:7 And he left there and went to the house of a man named Titius a worshiper of God. His house was next door to the synagogue.
Acts 18:8  with his entire household. And many of the Corinthians hearing Paul believed and were baptized.
Acts 18:9 And the Lord said to Paul “Do not be afraid, but go on speaking and do not be silent,
Acts 18:10  I have many in this city who are my people.”
Acts 18:11 And he stayed a year and six months, teaching the word of God among them.
Acts 18:12 But when Gallio was brought him before the tribunal,
Acts 18:13 saying, “This man is persuading people to worship God contrary to the law.”
Acts 18:14 But when Paul was about to open his mouth, Gallio said to the Jews, “If it were a matter of wrongdoing or vicious crime, O Jews, I would have reason to accept your complaint.
Acts 18:15 But your own law, see to it yourselves. I refuse to be a judge of these things.”
Acts 18:16 And he drove them from the tribunal.
Acts 18:17 And they all seized Sosthenes, the ruler of the synagogue, and beat him in front of the tribunal. But Gallio paid no attention to any of this.
Acts 18:18 After this, Paul stayed many days longer and then took leave of he had cut his hair, for he was under a vow.
Acts 18:19 And they came to he himself went into the synagogue and reasoned with the Jews.
Acts 18:20 When they asked him to stay for a longer period, he declined.
Acts 18:21 But on taking leave of them he said, “I will return to you if God wills,” and he set sail from Ephesus.
Acts 18:22 When he had landed at Caesarea, he went up and greeted the church, and then went down to Antioch.
Acts 18:23 After spending some time there, he departed and strengthening all the disciples.
Acts 18:24 Now a Jew named competent in the Scriptures.
Acts 18:25 He had been instructed in the baptism of John.
Acts 18:26 He began to speak boldly in the synagogue, but when the way of God more accurately.
Acts 18:27 And when he wished to cross to he greatly helped those who through grace had believed,
Acts 18:28 for he powerfully refuted the Jews in public, showing by the Scriptures that the Christ was Jesus.
Acts 19:1 And it happened that while  country and came to Ephesus. There he found some disciples.
Acts 19:2 And he said to them, we have not even heard that there is a Holy Spirit.”
Acts 19:3 And he said, John's baptism.”
Acts 19:4 And Paul said, to believe in the one who was to come after him, that is, Jesus.”
Acts 19:5 On hearing this,  the name of the Lord Jesus.
Acts 19:6 And prophesying.
Acts 19:7 There were about twelve men in all.
Acts 19:8 And about the kingdom of God.
Acts 19:9
Acts 19:10 This continued for all the residents of Asia heard the word of the Lord, both Jews and Greeks.
Acts 19:11 And God was doing extraordinary miracles by the hands of Paul,
Acts 19:12  the evil spirits came out of them.
Acts 19:13 Then some of the itinerant Jewish “I adjure you by the Jesus whom Paul proclaims.”
Acts 19:14 Seven sons of a Jewish high priest named Sceva were doing this.
Acts 19:15 But the evil spirit answered them, “Jesus I know, and Paul I recognize, but who are you?”
Acts 19:16 And the man in whom was the evil spirit leaped on them, mastered all  of them and overpowered them, so that they fled out of that house naked and wounded.
Acts 19:17 And this became known to all the residents of Ephesus, both Jews and Greeks. And fear fell upon them all, and the name of the Lord Jesus was extolled.
Acts 19:18 Also many of those who were now believers came, confessing and divulging their practices.
Acts 19:19 And a number of those who had practiced magic arts brought their books together and burned them in the sight of all. And they counted the value of them and found it came to fifty thousand pieces of silver.
Acts 19:20 So the word of the Lord continued to increase and prevail mightily.
Acts 19:21 Now after these events Paul resolved in the Spirit I must also see Rome.”
Acts 19:22 And having sent into Macedonia two of for a while.
Acts 19:23 About that time the Way.
Acts 19:24 For a man named Demetrius, a silversmith, who made silver shrines of Artemis, brought no little business to the craftsmen.
Acts 19:25  These he gathered together, with the workmen in similar trades, and said, “Men, you know that from this business we have our wealth.
Acts 19:26 And you see and hear that not only in Ephesus but in almost all of Asia this Paul has persuaded and turned away a great many people, gods made with hands are not gods.
Acts 19:27 And there is danger not only that this trade of ours may come into disrepute but also that the temple of the great goddess Artemis may be counted as nothing, and that she may even be deposed from her magnificence, she whom all Asia and the world worship.”
Acts 19:28 When they heard this they were enraged and were crying out, “Great is Artemis of the Ephesians!”
Acts 19:29 So the city was filled with the confusion, and they rushed together into the theater, dragging with them Gaius and companions in travel.
Acts 19:30 But when Paul wished to go in among the crowd, the disciples would not let him.
Acts 19:31 And even some of the Asiarchs,  who were friends of his, sent to him and were urging him not to venture into the theater.
Acts 19:32  Now some cried out one thing, some another, for the assembly was in confusion, and most of them did not know why they had come together.
Acts 19:33 Some of the crowd prompted Alexander, whom the Jews had put forward. And Alexander, motioning with his hand, wanted to make a defense to the crowd.
Acts 19:34 But when they recognized that he was a Jew, for about two hours they all cried out with one voice, “Great is Artemis of the Ephesians!”
Acts 19:35 And when the town clerk had quieted the crowd, he said, “Men of Ephesus, who is there who does not know that the city of the Ephesians is temple keeper of the great Artemis, and of the sacred stone that fell from
Acts 19:36 Seeing then that these things cannot be denied, you ought to be quiet and do nothing rash.
Acts 19:37 For you have brought sacrilegious nor blasphemers of our goddess.
Acts 19:38 If therefore Demetrius and the craftsmen with him have a complaint against anyone, the courts are open, and there are proconsuls. Let them bring charges against one another.
Acts 19:39 But if you seek anything further,  it shall be settled in the regular assembly.
Acts 19:40 For we really are in danger of being charged with rioting today, since there is no cause that we can give to justify this commotion.”
Acts 19:41 And when he had said these things, he dismissed the assembly.
Acts 20:1 After the uproar ceased, Paul sent for the disciples, and after encouraging them, he said farewell and departed for Macedonia.
Acts 20:2 When he had gone through those regions and had given them much encouragement, he came to Greece.
Acts 20:3 There he spent three months, and when  as he was about to set sail for Syria, he decided to return through Macedonia.
Acts 20:4 Sopater the Berean, son of Pyrrhus, accompanied him; and of the Thessalonians, Trophimus.
Acts 20:5 These went on ahead and were waiting for Troas,
Acts 20:6 but we sailed away from Philippi after the days of Unleavened Bread, and in five days we came to them at Troas, where we stayed for seven days.
Acts 20:7  to break bread, Paul talked with them, intending to depart on the next day, and he prolonged his speech until midnight.
Acts 20:8 There were many lamps in the upper room where we were gathered.
Acts 20:9 And a young man named Eutychus, sitting at the window, sank into a deep sleep as Paul talked still longer. And being overcome by sleep, he fell down from the third story and was taken up dead.
Acts 20:10 But Paul went down and “Do not be alarmed, for his life is in him.”
Acts 20:11 And when Paul had gone up and had broken bread and eaten, he conversed with them a long while, until daybreak, and so departed.
Acts 20:12 And they took the youth away alive, and were not a little comforted.
Acts 20:13 But going ahead to the ship, we set sail for Assos, intending to take Paul aboard there, for so he had arranged, intending himself to go by land.
Acts 20:14 And when he met us at Assos, we took him on board and went to Mitylene.
Acts 20:15 And sailing from there we came the following day opposite Chios; the next day we touched at Samos; and  the day after that we went to Miletus.
Acts 20:16 For Paul had decided to sail past Ephesus, so that he might not have to spend time in Asia, for he was hastening on the day of Pentecost.
Acts 20:17 Now from Miletus he sent to Ephesus and called the elders of the church to come to him.
Acts 20:18 And when they came to him, he said to them:  from the first day that I set foot in Asia,
Acts 20:19  the plots of the Jews;
Acts 20:20 how I teaching you in public and from house to house,
Acts 20:21
Acts 20:22 And now, behold, I am going to Jerusalem, constrained  the Spirit, not knowing what will happen to me there,
Acts 20:23 except that afflictions await me.
Acts 20:24 But the grace of God.
Acts 20:25 And now, behold, proclaiming the kingdom will see my face again.
Acts 20:26 Therefore I am innocent of the blood of all,
Acts 20:27 for the whole counsel of God.
Acts 20:28
Acts 20:29 I not sparing the flock;
Acts 20:30 and from among your own selves will arise men speaking twisted things, to draw away the disciples after them.
Acts 20:31 Therefore with tears.
Acts 20:32 And now the inheritance among all those who are sanctified.
Acts 20:33  I coveted no one's silver or gold or apparel.
Acts 20:34  to those who were with me.
Acts 20:35 In all things to give than to receive.’”
Acts 20:36 And when he had said these things, he knelt down and prayed with them all.
Acts 20:37 And kissed him,
Acts 20:38 being sorrowful most of all because of they accompanied him to the ship.
Acts 21:1 And when
Acts 21:2 And having found a ship crossing to Phoenicia, we went aboard and set sail.
Acts 21:3 When we had come in sight of Cyprus, leaving it on the left we sailed to Syria and landed at Tyre, for there the ship was to unload its cargo.
Acts 21:4 And having sought out the disciples, we stayed there for seven days. And through the Spirit they were telling Paul not to go on to Jerusalem.
Acts 21:5 When our days there were ended, we departed and went on our journey, and they all, with wives and children, kneeling down on the beach, we prayed
Acts 21:6 and said farewell to one another. Then we went on board the ship, and they returned home.
Acts 21:7 When we had finished the voyage from Tyre, we arrived at Ptolemais, and we greeted  and stayed with them for one day.
Acts 21:8 On the next day we departed and came to Caesarea, and we entered the house of the evangelist, who was one of the seven, and stayed with him.
Acts 21:9 He had four unmarried daughters, who prophesied.
Acts 21:10 While we were staying for many days, a prophet named Agabus came down from Judea.
Acts 21:11 And coming to us, he deliver him into the hands of the Gentiles.’”
Acts 21:12 When we heard this, we and the people there urged him not to go up to Jerusalem.
Acts 21:13 Then Paul answered, for the name of the Lord Jesus.”
Acts 21:14 And since he would not be persuaded, “Let the will of the Lord be done.”
Acts 21:15 After these days we got ready and went up to Jerusalem.
Acts 21:16 And some of the disciples from Caesarea went with us, bringing us to the house of Mnason of Cyprus, an early disciple, with whom we should lodge.
Acts 21:17 When we had come to Jerusalem, the brothers received us gladly.
Acts 21:18 On the following day Paul went in with us to the elders were present.
Acts 21:19 After greeting them, ministry.
Acts 21:20 And when they heard it, they zealous for the law,
Acts 21:21 and they have been told about you that you teach all our customs.
Acts 21:22 What then is to be done? They will certainly hear that you have come.
Acts 21:23 Do therefore what we tell you. We have four men who are under a vow;
Acts 21:24 take these men and so that they may shave their heads. Thus all will know that there is nothing in what they have been told about you, but that you yourself also live in observance of the law.
Acts 21:25 But as for the Gentiles who have believed,  and from sexual immorality.”
Acts 21:26 Then Paul took the men, and the next day the offering presented for each one of them.
Acts 21:27 When seeing him in the temple, stirred up the whole crowd and laid hands on him,
Acts 21:28 crying out, “Men of Israel, help! This is the man who this holy place.”
Acts 21:29 For they had previously seen Trophimus the Ephesian with him in the city, and they supposed that Paul had brought him into the temple.
Acts 21:30 Then all the city was stirred up, and the people ran together. They seized Paul and dragged him out of the temple, and at once the gates were shut.
Acts 21:31  the cohort that all Jerusalem was in confusion.
Acts 21:32  He at once took soldiers and centurions and ran down to them. And when they saw the tribune and the soldiers, they stopped beating Paul.
Acts 21:33 Then the tribune came up and arrested him and ordered him with two chains. He inquired who he was and what he had done.
Acts 21:34  the barracks.
Acts 21:35 And when he came to the steps, he was actually carried by the soldiers because of the violence of the crowd,
Acts 21:36 for the mob of the people followed, crying out, “Away with him!”
Acts 21:37 As Paul was about to be brought into the barracks, he said to the tribune, “May I say something to you?” And he said, “Do you know Greek?
Acts 21:38 Are you not into the wilderness?”
Acts 21:39 Paul replied, “I am a Jew, from Tarsus in Cilicia, a citizen of no obscure city. I beg you, permit me to speak to the people.”
Acts 21:40 And when he had given him permission, Paul, standing on the steps,  saying:
Acts 22:1  “Brothers and fathers, hear the defense that I now make before you.”
Acts 22:2 And when they heard that he was addressing them in  they became even more quiet. And he said:
Acts 22:3  as all of you are this day.
Acts 22:4  to the death, binding and delivering to prison both men and women,
Acts 22:5 as the brothers, and I journeyed toward Damascus to take those also who were there and bring them in bonds to Jerusalem to be punished.
Acts 22:6  “As I was on my way and drew near to Damascus, about noon a great light from heaven suddenly shone around me.
Acts 22:7 And I fell to the ground and heard a voice saying to me, ‘Saul, Saul, why are you persecuting me?’
Acts 22:8 And I answered, ‘Who are you, Lord?’ And he said to me, ‘I am Jesus of Nazareth, whom you are persecuting.’
Acts 22:9   the voice of the one who was speaking to me.
Acts 22:10 And I said, ‘What shall I do, Lord?’ And the Lord said to me, ‘Rise, and go into Damascus, and there you will be told all that is appointed for you to do.’
Acts 22:11 And since I could not see because of the brightness of that light, I was led by the hand by those who were with me, and came into Damascus.
Acts 22:12 “And well spoken of by all the Jews who lived there,
Acts 22:13  at that very hour I received my sight and saw him.
Acts 22:14 And he said, to hear a voice from his mouth;
Acts 22:15 for you have seen and heard.
Acts 22:16 And now why do you wait? calling on his name.’
Acts 22:17  a trance
Acts 22:18 and saw him saying to me,  ‘Make haste and get out of Jerusalem quickly, because they will not accept your testimony about me.’
Acts 22:19 And I said, ‘Lord, they themselves know that in one synagogue after another beat those who believed in you.
Acts 22:20 And when the blood of Stephen watching over the garments of those who killed him.’
Acts 22:21 And he said to me, ‘Go, for I will send you far away to the Gentiles.’”
Acts 22:22 Up to this word they listened to him. Then they raised their voices and said, he should not be allowed to live.”
Acts 22:23 And as they were shouting and throwing off their cloaks and flinging dust into the air,
Acts 22:24 the tribune ordered him to be brought into examined by flogging, to find out why they were shouting against him like this.
Acts 22:25 But when they had stretched him out for the whips, a man who is a Roman citizen and uncondemned?”
Acts 22:26 When the centurion heard this, he went to the tribune and said to him, “What are you about to do? For this man is a Roman citizen.”
Acts 22:27 So the tribune came and said to him, “Tell me, are you a Roman citizen?” And he said, “Yes.”
Acts 22:28 The tribune answered, “I bought this citizenship for a large sum.” Paul said, “But I am a citizen by birth.”
Acts 22:29 So those who were about he had bound him.
Acts 22:30 But on the next day, desiring to know the real reason why he was being accused by the Jews, he unbound him and commanded the chief priests and all the council to meet, and he brought Paul down and set him before them.
Acts 23:1 And looking intently at the council, Paul said, “Brothers, I have lived my life before God in all good conscience up to this day.”
Acts 23:2 And the high priest to strike him on the mouth.
Acts 23:3 Then Paul said to him, “God is going to strike you, you order me to be struck?”
Acts 23:4 Those who stood by said, “Would you revile God's high priest?”
Acts 23:5 And Paul said, ‘You shall not speak evil of a ruler of your people.’”
Acts 23:6 Now when Paul perceived that one part were hope and the resurrection of the dead that I am on trial.”
Acts 23:7 And when he had said this, a dissension arose between the Pharisees and the Sadducees, and the assembly was divided.
Acts 23:8 For the Sadducees say that there is no resurrection, nor angel, nor spirit, but the Pharisees acknowledge them all.
Acts 23:9 Then a great clamor arose, and some of if a spirit or an angel spoke to him?”
Acts 23:10 And when the dissension became violent, the tribune, afraid that Paul would be torn to pieces by them, commanded the soldiers to go down and take him away from among them by force and bring him into the barracks.
Acts 23:11  testify also in Rome.”
Acts 23:12 When it was day, bound themselves by an oath neither to eat nor drink till they had killed Paul.
Acts 23:13 There were more than forty who made this conspiracy.
Acts 23:14 They went to the chief priests and elders and said, “We have strictly bound ourselves by an oath to taste no food till we have killed Paul.
Acts 23:15 Now therefore you, along with the council, give notice to the tribune to bring him down to you, as though you were going to determine his case more exactly. And we are ready to kill him before he comes near.”
Acts 23:16 Now the son of Paul's sister heard of their ambush, so he went and entered the barracks and told Paul.
Acts 23:17 Paul called one of the centurions and said, “Take this young man to the tribune, for he has something to tell him.”
Acts 23:18 So he took him and brought him to the tribune and said, “Paul the prisoner called me and asked me to bring this young man to you, as he has something to say to you.”
Acts 23:19 The tribune took him by the hand, and going aside asked him privately, “What is it that you have to tell me?”
Acts 23:20 And he said, “The Jews have agreed to ask you to bring Paul down to the council tomorrow, as though they were going to inquire somewhat more closely about him.
Acts 23:21 But do not be persuaded by them, for more than forty of their men are lying in ambush for him, who have bound themselves by an oath neither to eat nor drink till they have killed him. And now they are ready, waiting for your consent.”
Acts 23:22 So the tribune dismissed the young man, charging him, “Tell no one that you have informed me of these things.”
Acts 23:23 Then he called two of the centurions and said, “Get ready two hundred soldiers, with seventy horsemen and two hundred spearmen to go as far as Caesarea at the third hour of the night.
Acts 23:24 Also provide mounts for Paul to ride and bring him safely to the governor.”
Acts 23:25 And he wrote a letter to this effect:
Acts 23:26 “Claudius Lysias, to greetings.
Acts 23:27  having learned that he was a Roman citizen.
Acts 23:28 And desiring to know the charge for which they were accusing him, I brought him down to their council.
Acts 23:29 I found that he was being accused charged with nothing deserving death or imprisonment.
Acts 23:30  ordering his accusers also to state before you what they have against him.”
Acts 23:31 So the soldiers, according to their instructions, took Paul and brought him by night to Antipatris.
Acts 23:32 And on the next day they returned to the barracks, letting the horsemen go on with him.
Acts 23:33 When they had come to Caesarea and delivered the letter to the governor, they presented Paul also before him.
Acts 23:34 On reading the letter, he asked what that he was from Cilicia,
Acts 23:35 he said, “I will give you a hearing praetorium.
Acts 24:1 And the governor their case against Paul.
Acts 24:2 And when he had been summoned, Tertullus began to accuse him, saying: “Since through you we enjoy much peace, and since by your foresight, most excellent Felix, reforms are being made for this nation,
Acts 24:3 in every way and everywhere we accept this with all gratitude.
Acts 24:4 But, to detain  you no further, I beg you in your kindness to hear us briefly.
Acts 24:5 For we have found this man a plague, the sect of the Nazarenes.
Acts 24:6
Acts 24:7
Acts 24:8 By examining him yourself you will be able to find out from him about everything of which we accuse him.”
Acts 24:9 The Jews also joined in the charge, affirming that all these things were so.
Acts 24:10 And when the governor had nodded to him to speak, Paul replied: “Knowing that for many years you have been a judge over this nation, I cheerfully make my defense.
Acts 24:11 You can verify that to worship in Jerusalem,
Acts 24:12 and they did not find me disputing with anyone or stirring up a crowd, either in the temple or in the synagogues or in the city.
Acts 24:13  Neither can they prove to you what they now bring up against me.
Acts 24:14 But this I confess to you, that according to laid down by the Law and written in the Prophets,
Acts 24:15  of both the just and the unjust.
Acts 24:16 So I always clear conscience toward both God and man.
Acts 24:17 Now offerings.
Acts 24:18 While I was doing this, they found me some Jews from Asia —
Acts 24:19  they ought to be here before you and to make an accusation, should they have anything against me.
Acts 24:20 Or else let these men themselves say what wrongdoing they found when I stood before the council,
Acts 24:21 other than this one thing that I cried out while standing among them: ‘It is with respect to the resurrection of the dead that I am on trial before you this day.’”
Acts 24:22 But Felix, having a rather accurate knowledge of the Way, put them off, saying, “When Lysias the tribune comes down, I will decide your case.”
Acts 24:23 Then he gave orders to the centurion that he none of his friends should be prevented from attending to his needs.
Acts 24:24 After some days Felix came with his wife Drusilla, who was Jewish, and he sent for Paul and heard him speak about in Christ Jesus.
Acts 24:25 And as he reasoned When I get an opportunity I will summon you.”
Acts 24:26 At the same time he hoped that money would be given him by Paul. So he sent for him often and conversed with him.
Acts 24:27 When two years had elapsed, Felix was succeeded by Porcius Felix left Paul in prison.
Acts 25:1 Now three days after Festus had arrived in the province, he went up to Jerusalem from Caesarea.
Acts 25:2 And the chief priests and the principal men of the Jews laid out their case against Paul, and they urged him,
Acts 25:3 asking as a favor against Paul they were planning an ambush to kill him on the way.
Acts 25:4 Festus replied that Paul was being kept at Caesarea and that he himself intended to go there shortly.
Acts 25:5 “So,” said he, “let the men of authority among you go down with me, and if there is anything wrong about the man, let them bring charges against him.”
Acts 25:6 After he stayed among them not more than eight or ten days, he went down to Caesarea. And the next day he took his seat on the tribunal and ordered Paul to be brought.
Acts 25:7 When he had arrived, the Jews who had come down from Jerusalem stood around him, bringing many and serious charges against him that they could not prove.
Acts 25:8 Paul argued in his defense, “Neither against Caesar have I committed any offense.”
Acts 25:9 But Festus, wishing to do the Jews a favor, said to Paul, “Do you wish to go up to Jerusalem and there be tried on these charges before me?”
Acts 25:10 But Paul said, “I am standing before Caesar's tribunal, where I ought to be tried. To the Jews I have done no wrong, as you yourself know very well.
Acts 25:11 If then I am a wrongdoer and have committed anything for which I deserve to die, I do not seek to escape death. But if there is nothing to their charges against me, no one can give me up to them. I appeal to Caesar.”
Acts 25:12 Then Festus, when he had conferred with his council, answered, “To Caesar you have appealed; to Caesar you shall go.”
Acts 25:13 Now when some days had passed, Agrippa the king and Bernice arrived at Caesarea and greeted Festus.
Acts 25:14 And as they stayed there many days, Festus laid Paul's case before the king, saying, “There is a man left prisoner by Felix,
Acts 25:15 and when I was at Jerusalem, the chief priests and the elders of the Jews laid out their case against him, asking for a sentence of condemnation against him.
Acts 25:16  before the accused met the accusers face to face and had opportunity to make his defense concerning the charge laid against him.
Acts 25:17  the tribunal and ordered the man to be brought.
Acts 25:18 When the accusers stood up, they brought no charge in his case of such evils as I supposed.
Acts 25:19 Rather they a certain Jesus, who was dead, but whom Paul asserted to be alive.
Acts 25:20 Being at a loss how to investigate these questions, I asked whether he wanted to go to Jerusalem and be tried there regarding them.
Acts 25:21 But the emperor, I ordered him to be held until I could send him to Caesar.”
Acts 25:22 Then Agrippa said to Festus, “I would like to hear the man myself.” “Tomorrow,” said he, “you will hear him.”
Acts 25:23 So on the next day Agrippa and Bernice came with great pomp, and they entered the audience hall with the military tribunes and the prominent men of the city. Then, at the command of Festus, Paul was brought in.
Acts 25:24 And Festus said, “King Agrippa and all who are present with us, you see this man about whom shouting that he ought not to live any longer.
Acts 25:25 But I found that the emperor, I decided to go ahead and send him.
Acts 25:26 But I have nothing definite to write to my lord about him. Therefore I have brought him before you all, and especially before you, King Agrippa, so that, after we have examined him, I may have something to write.
Acts 25:27 For it seems to me unreasonable, in sending a prisoner, not to indicate the charges against him.”
Acts 26:1 So Agrippa said to Paul, “You have permission to speak for yourself.” Then Paul stretched out his hand and made his defense:
Acts 26:2 “I consider myself fortunate that it is before you, King Agrippa, I am going to make my defense today against all the accusations of the Jews,
Acts 26:3 especially because you are familiar with all the controversies of the Jews. Therefore I beg you to listen to me patiently.
Acts 26:4  my own nation and in Jerusalem, is known by all the Jews.
Acts 26:5 They have known for a long time, if they are willing to testify, that a Pharisee.
Acts 26:6 And now I stand here on trial because of my hope in the promise made by God to our fathers,
Acts 26:7  I am accused by Jews, O king!
Acts 26:8 Why is it thought incredible by any of you that God raises the dead?
Acts 26:9  Jesus of Nazareth.
Acts 26:10  when they were put to death I cast my vote against them.
Acts 26:11 And persecuted them even to foreign cities.
Acts 26:12 “In this connection I journeyed to Damascus with the authority and commission of the chief priests.
Acts 26:13 At midday, O king, I saw on the way a light from heaven, brighter than the sun, that shone around me and those who journeyed with me.
Acts 26:14 And when we had all fallen to the ground, I heard a voice saying to me  ‘Saul, Saul, why are you persecuting me? It is hard for you to kick against the goads.’
Acts 26:15 And I said, ‘Who are you, Lord?’ And the Lord said, ‘I am Jesus whom you are persecuting.
Acts 26:16 But rise and to appoint you as a servant and witness to the things in which you have seen me and to those in which I will appear to you,
Acts 26:17  am sending you
Acts 26:18  by faith in me.’
Acts 26:19 “Therefore, O King Agrippa, I was not disobedient to the heavenly vision,
Acts 26:20 but declared first in keeping with their repentance.
Acts 26:21 For this reason the Jews seized me in the temple and tried to kill me.
Acts 26:22  the prophets and Moses said would come to pass:
Acts 26:23  light both to our people and to the Gentiles.”
Acts 26:24 And as he was saying these things in his defense, Festus said with a loud voice, “Paul, you are out of your mind; your great learning is driving you out of your mind.”
Acts 26:25 But Paul said, “I am not out of my mind, rational words.
Acts 26:26 For the king knows about these things, and to him I speak boldly. For I am persuaded that none of these things has escaped his notice, for this has not been done in a corner.
Acts 26:27 King Agrippa, do you believe the prophets? I know that you believe.”
Acts 26:28 And Agrippa said to Paul, “In a short time would you persuade me to be
Acts 26:29 And Paul said, “Whether short or long, I would to God that not only you but also all who hear me this day these chains.”
Acts 26:30 Then the king rose, and the governor and Bernice and those who were sitting with them.
Acts 26:31 And when they had withdrawn, they said to one another, “This man is doing nothing to deserve death or imprisonment.”
Acts 26:32 And Agrippa said to Festus, to Caesar.”
Acts 27:1 And when it was decided Cohort named Julius.
Acts 27:2 And embarking in a ship of Adramyttium, which was about to sail to the ports along the coast of Asia, we put to sea, accompanied by Aristarchus, a Macedonian from Thessalonica.
Acts 27:3 The next day we put in at Sidon. And gave him leave to go to his friends and be cared for.
Acts 27:4 And putting out to sea from there we sailed under the lee of Cyprus, because the winds were against us.
Acts 27:5 And when we had sailed across the open sea along the coast of Cilicia and Pamphylia, we came to Myra in Lycia.
Acts 27:6 There the centurion found a ship of Alexandria sailing for Italy and put us on board.
Acts 27:7 We sailed slowly for a number of days and arrived with difficulty off Cnidus, and as the wind did not allow us to go farther, we sailed under the lee of Crete off Salmone.
Acts 27:8 Coasting along it with difficulty, we came to a place called Fair Havens, near which was the city of Lasea.
Acts 27:9 Since much time had passed, and the voyage was now dangerous because even  was already over, Paul advised them,
Acts 27:10 saying, “Sirs, I perceive that the voyage will be with injury and much loss, not only of the cargo and the ship, but also of our lives.”
Acts 27:11 But the centurion paid more attention to the pilot and to the owner of the ship than to what Paul said.
Acts 27:12 And because the harbor was not suitable to spend the winter in, the majority decided to put out to sea from there, on the chance that somehow they could reach Phoenix, a harbor of Crete, facing both southwest and northwest, and spend the winter there.
Acts 27:13 Now when the south wind blew gently, supposing that they had obtained their purpose, they weighed anchor and sailed along Crete, close to the shore.
Acts 27:14 But soon a tempestuous wind, called the northeaster, struck down from the land.
Acts 27:15 And when the ship was caught and could not face the wind, we gave way to it and were driven along.
Acts 27:16 Running under the lee of a small island called Cauda,  we managed with difficulty to secure the ship's boat.
Acts 27:17 After hoisting it up, they used supports to undergird the ship. Then, fearing that they would  and thus they were driven along.
Acts 27:18 Since we were violently storm-tossed, they began the next day to jettison the cargo.
Acts 27:19 And on the third day they threw the ship's tackle overboard with their own hands.
Acts 27:20 When neither sun nor stars appeared for many days, and no small tempest lay on us, all hope of our being saved was at last abandoned.
Acts 27:21 Since they had been without food for a long time, Paul stood up among them and said, “Men, injury and loss.
Acts 27:22 Yet now I urge you to take heart, for there will be no loss of life among you, but only of the ship.
Acts 27:23 For this very night whom I worship,
Acts 27:24 and he said, ‘Do not be afraid, Paul; God has granted you all those who sail with you.’
Acts 27:25 So take heart, men, for I have faith in God that it will be exactly as I have been told.
Acts 27:26 But run aground on some island.”
Acts 27:27 When the fourteenth night had come, as we were being driven across the Adriatic Sea, about midnight the sailors suspected that they were nearing land.
Acts 27:28 So they took a sounding and found twenty fathoms.
Acts 27:29 And fearing that we might run on the rocks, they let down four anchors from the stern and prayed for day to come.
Acts 27:30 And as the sailors were seeking to escape from the ship, and had lowered the ship's boat into the sea under pretense of laying out anchors from the bow,
Acts 27:31 Paul said to the centurion and the soldiers, “Unless these men stay in the ship, you cannot be saved.”
Acts 27:32 Then the soldiers cut away the ropes of the ship's boat and let it go.
Acts 27:33 As day was about to dawn, Paul urged them all to take some food, saying, “Today is the fourteenth day that you have continued in suspense and without food, having taken nothing.
Acts 27:34 Therefore I urge you to take some food. For it will give you strength, not a hair is to perish from the head of any of you.”
Acts 27:35 And when he had said these things, he took bread, and giving thanks to God in the presence of all he broke it and began to eat.
Acts 27:36 Then they all were encouraged and ate some food themselves.
Acts 27:37 (We were in all 276 persons in the ship.)
Acts 27:38 And when they had eaten enough, they lightened the ship, throwing out the wheat into the sea.
Acts 27:39 Now when it was day, they did not recognize the land, but they noticed a bay with a beach, on which they planned if possible to run the ship ashore.
Acts 27:40 So they cast off the anchors and left them in the sea, at the same time loosening the ropes that tied the rudders. Then hoisting the foresail to the wind they made for the beach.
Acts 27:41 But striking a reef, they ran the vessel aground. The bow stuck and remained immovable, and the stern was being broken up by the surf.
Acts 27:42  The soldiers' plan was to kill the prisoners, lest any should swim away and escape.
Acts 27:43 But the centurion, wishing to save Paul, kept them from carrying out their plan. He ordered those who could swim to jump overboard first and make for the land,
Acts 27:44 and the rest on planks or on pieces of the ship. And so it was that all were brought safely to land.
Acts 28:1 After we were brought safely through, the island was called Malta.
Acts 28:2  kindness, for they kindled a fire and welcomed us all, because it had begun to rain and was cold.
Acts 28:3 When Paul had gathered a bundle of sticks and put them on the fire, a viper came out because of the heat and fastened on his hand.
Acts 28:4 When  has not allowed him to live.”
Acts 28:5 He, however, shook off the creature into the fire and suffered no harm.
Acts 28:6 They were waiting for him to swell up or suddenly fall down dead. But when they had waited a long time and saw no misfortune come to him, said that he was a god.
Acts 28:7 Now in the neighborhood of that place were lands belonging to the chief man of the island, named Publius, who received us and entertained us hospitably for three days.
Acts 28:8 It happened that the father of Publius lay sick with fever and dysentery. And Paul visited him and putting his hands on him, healed him.
Acts 28:9 And when this had taken place, the rest of the people on the island who had diseases also came and were cured.
Acts 28:10 They also honored us greatly,  and when we were about to sail, they put on board whatever we needed.
Acts 28:11 After three months we set sail in  as a figurehead.
Acts 28:12 Putting in at Syracuse, we stayed there for three days.
Acts 28:13 And from there we made a circuit and arrived at Rhegium. And after one day a south wind sprang up, and on the second day we came to Puteoli.
Acts 28:14 There we found  and were invited to stay with them for seven days. And so we came to Rome.
Acts 28:15 And Paul thanked God and took courage.
Acts 28:16 And when we came into Rome, Paul was allowed to stay by himself, with the soldier who guarded him.
Acts 28:17 After three days he called together the local leaders of the Jews, and when they had gathered, he said to them, “Brothers, the customs of our fathers, yet I was delivered as a prisoner from Jerusalem into the hands of the Romans.
Acts 28:18 When they had examined me, they because there was no reason for the death penalty in my case.
Acts 28:19 But because the Jews objected, I was compelled my nation.
Acts 28:20 For this reason, therefore, I have asked to see you and speak with you, since it is chain.”
Acts 28:21 And they said to him, “We have received no letters from Judea about you, and none of the brothers coming here has reported or spoken any evil about you.
Acts 28:22 But we desire to hear from you what your views are, for with regard to this it is spoken against.”
Acts 28:23 When they had appointed a day for him, they came to him at his lodging in greater numbers. From morning till evening both from the Law of Moses and from the Prophets.
Acts 28:24 And some were convinced by what he said, but others disbelieved.
Acts 28:25 And disagreeing among themselves, they departed after Paul had made one statement: “The Holy Spirit was right in saying to your fathers through Isaiah the prophet:
Acts 28:26 “You will indeed hear but never understand, and you will indeed see but never perceive.”
Acts 28:27  turn, and I would heal them.’
Acts 28:28 Therefore let it be known to you that
Acts 28:29
Acts 28:30 He lived there two whole years at his own expense, welcomed all who came to him,
Acts 28:31  without hindrance.
Romans 1:1 Paul, set apart for the gospel of God,
Romans 1:2 which through his prophets in the holy Scriptures,
Romans 1:3 concerning his Son, according to the flesh
Romans 1:4 and in power according to the Spirit of holiness by his resurrection from the dead, Jesus Christ our Lord,
Romans 1:5 through whom among all the nations,
Romans 1:6 including you who are called to belong to Jesus Christ,
Romans 1:7 To all those in Rome who are loved by God and called to be saints: Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ.
Romans 1:8 First, because your faith is proclaimed in all the world.
Romans 1:9  that without ceasing I mention you
Romans 1:10 always in my prayers, asking that somehow by God's will I may now at last succeed in coming to you.
Romans 1:11 For I long to see you, that I may impart to you some spiritual gift to strengthen you —
Romans 1:12 that is, that we may be mutually encouraged by each other's faith, both yours and mine.
Romans 1:13 I do not want you to be unaware, brothers, harvest among you as well as among the rest of the Gentiles.
Romans 1:14   both to the wise and to the foolish.
Romans 1:15 So I am eager to preach the gospel to you also who are in Rome.
Romans 1:16 For the Greek.
Romans 1:17 For in it
Romans 1:18 For is revealed from heaven against all ungodliness and unrighteousness of men, who by their unrighteousness suppress the truth.
Romans 1:19 For what can be known about God is plain to them, because God has shown it to them.
Romans 1:20 For his invisible attributes, namely, his eternal power and divine nature,  in the things that have been made. So they are without excuse.
Romans 1:21 For although they knew God, they did not honor him as God or give thanks to him, but they became futile in their thinking, and their foolish hearts were darkened.
Romans 1:22  Claiming to be wise, they became fools,
Romans 1:23 and the immortal God for images resembling mortal man and birds and animals and creeping things.
Romans 1:24 Therefore the dishonoring of their bodies among themselves,
Romans 1:25 because they exchanged the truth about God for who is blessed forever! Amen.
Romans 1:26 For this reason dishonorable passions. For their women exchanged natural relations for those that are contrary to nature;
Romans 1:27 and the men likewise gave up natural relations with women and were consumed with passion for one another, men committing shameless acts with men and receiving in themselves the due penalty for their error.
Romans 1:28 And since they did not see fit to acknowledge God, what ought not to be done.
Romans 1:29 They were filled with all manner of unrighteousness, evil, covetousness, malice. They are full of envy, murder, strife, deceit, maliciousness. They are gossips,
Romans 1:30 slanderers, haters of God, insolent, haughty, boastful, inventors of evil, disobedient to parents,
Romans 1:31 foolish, faithless, heartless, ruthless.
Romans 1:32 Though they know give approval to those who practice them.
Romans 2:1 Therefore you have in passing judgment on another you condemn yourself, because you, the judge, practice the very same things.
Romans 2:2 We know that the judgment of God rightly falls on those who practice such things.
Romans 2:3 Do you suppose, O man — you who judge those who practice such things and yet do them yourself — that you will escape the judgment of God?
Romans 2:4 Or do you presume on not knowing that God's kindness is meant to lead you to repentance?
Romans 2:5 But because of your hard and impenitent heart you are wrath for yourself on the day of wrath when God's righteous judgment will be revealed.
Romans 2:6  He will render to each one according to his works:
Romans 2:7 to those who by patience in well-doing seek for glory and honor and immortality, he will give eternal life;
Romans 2:8 but for those who are self-seeking do not obey the truth, but obey unrighteousness, there will be wrath and fury.
Romans 2:9 There will be tribulation and distress first and also the Greek,
Romans 2:10 but glory and honor and the Jew first and also the Greek.
Romans 2:11 For God shows no partiality.
Romans 2:12 For all who have sinned without the law will also perish without the law, and all who have sinned under the law will be judged by the law.
Romans 2:13 For it is not the hearers of the law who are righteous before God, but the doers of the law who will be justified.
Romans 2:14 For when Gentiles, who do not have the law, by nature do what the law requires, they are a law to themselves, even though they do not have the law.
Romans 2:15 They show that the work of the law is written on their hearts, while their conscience also bears witness, and their conflicting thoughts accuse or even excuse them
Romans 2:16  by Christ Jesus.
Romans 2:17 But if you call yourself a Jew and rely on the law and boast in God
Romans 2:18 and know his will and approve what is excellent, because you are instructed from the law;
Romans 2:19 and if you are sure that you yourself are a guide to the blind, a light to those who are in darkness,
Romans 2:20 an instructor of the foolish, a teacher of children, having in the law knowledge and truth —
Romans 2:21  you then who teach others, do you not teach yourself? While you preach against stealing, do you steal?
Romans 2:22 You who say that one must not commit adultery, do you commit adultery? You who abhor idols, do you rob temples?
Romans 2:23 You who dishonor God by breaking the law.
Romans 2:24 For, among the Gentiles because of you.”
Romans 2:25 For circumcision indeed is of value if you obey the law, but if you break the law, your circumcision becomes uncircumcision.
Romans 2:26 So, if  as circumcision?
Romans 2:27 Then he who is physically  and circumcision but break the law.
Romans 2:28 For who is merely one outwardly, nor is circumcision outward and physical.
Romans 2:29 But a Jew is one His praise is not from man but from God.
Romans 3:1 Then what advantage has the Jew? Or what is the value of circumcision?
Romans 3:2 Much in every way. To begin with, the oracles of God.
Romans 3:3  Does their faithlessness nullify the faithfulness of God?
Romans 3:4 By no means! are judged.”
Romans 3:5 But if our unrighteousness serves to show the righteousness of God, what shall we say? That God is unrighteous to inflictI speak in a human way.)
Romans 3:6 By no means! For then how could God judge the world?
Romans 3:7 But if through my lie God's truth abounds to his glory, why am I still being condemned as a sinner?
Romans 3:8 And why not do evil that good may come? — as some people slanderously charge us with saying. Their condemnation is just.
Romans 3:9 What then? Are we Jews under sin,
Romans 3:10 as it is written: “None is righteous, no, not one;
Romans 3:11 no one understands; no one seeks for God.
Romans 3:12 All have turned aside; together they have become worthless; no one does good, not even one.”
Romans 3:13 “The venom of asps is under their lips.”
Romans 3:14  “Their mouth is full of curses and bitterness.”
Romans 3:15  “Their feet are swift to shed blood;
Romans 3:16 in their paths are ruin and misery,
Romans 3:17 and the way of peace they have not known.”
Romans 3:18  “There is no fear of God before their eyes.”
Romans 3:19 Now we know that whatever the whole world may be held accountable to God.
Romans 3:20 For through the law comes knowledge of sin.
Romans 3:21 But now the Law and the Prophets bear witness to it —
Romans 3:22 the righteousness of God For there is no distinction:
Romans 3:23 for all have sinned and fall short of the glory of God,
Romans 3:24  through the redemption that is in Christ Jesus,
Romans 3:25 whom God former sins.
Romans 3:26 It was to show his righteousness at the present time, so that he might be just and the justifier of the one who has faith in Jesus.
Romans 3:27  Then what becomes of our boasting? It is excluded. By what kind of law? By a law of works? No, but by the law of faith.
Romans 3:28 For we hold that one is justified by faith apart from works of the law.
Romans 3:29 Or is God the God of Jews only? Is he not the God of Gentiles also? Yes, of Gentiles also,
Romans 3:30 since the uncircumcised through faith.
Romans 3:31 Do we then overthrow the law by this faith? By no means! On the contrary, we uphold the law.
Romans 4:1 What then shall we say was gained by Abraham, our forefather according to the flesh?
Romans 4:2 For if Abraham was justified by works, he has something to boast about, but not before God.
Romans 4:3 For what does the Scripture say? “Abraham believed God, and it was counted to him as righteousness.”
Romans 4:4 Now to the one who works, his wages are not counted as a gift but as his due.
Romans 4:5 And to the one who does not work but  him who justifies the ungodly, his faith is counted as righteousness,
Romans 4:6 just as David also speaks of the blessing of the one to whom God counts righteousness apart from works:
Romans 4:7  “Blessed are those whose lawless deeds are forgiven, and whose sins are covered;
Romans 4:8 blessed is the man against whom the Lord will not count his sin.”
Romans 4:9 Is this blessing then only for For we say that faith was counted to Abraham as righteousness.
Romans 4:10 How then was it counted to him? Was it before or after he had been circumcised? It was not after, but before he was circumcised.
Romans 4:11  to make him the father of all who believe without being circumcised, so that righteousness would be counted to them as well,
Romans 4:12 and to make him the father of the circumcised who are not merely circumcised but who also walk in the footsteps of the faith that our father Abraham had before he was circumcised.
Romans 4:13 For that he would be heir of the world did not come through the law but through the righteousness of faith.
Romans 4:14  For if it is the adherents of the law who are to be the heirs, faith is null and the promise is void.
Romans 4:15 For there is no transgression.
Romans 4:16 That is why it depends on faith, who is the father of us all,
Romans 4:17 as it is written, the things that do not exist.
Romans 4:18 In hope he believed against hope, that he should become the father of many nations, as he had been told, “So shall your offspring be.”
Romans 4:19 He did not weaken in faith when he considered his own body, which was  of Sarah's womb.
Romans 4:20 No unbelief made him waver concerning the promise of God, but he grew strong in his faith as he gave glory to God,
Romans 4:21 fully convinced that God was able to do what he had promised.
Romans 4:22 That is why his faith was “counted to him as righteousness.”
Romans 4:23 But the words “it was counted to him” were not written for his sake alone,
Romans 4:24 but for ours also. It will be counted to us him who raised from the dead Jesus our Lord,
Romans 4:25  for our justification.
Romans 5:1   have peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ.
Romans 5:2 Through him we have also  in hope of the glory of God.
Romans 5:3 Not only that, but we produces endurance,
Romans 5:4 and endurance produces character, and character produces hope,
Romans 5:5 and has been poured into our hearts through the Holy Spirit who has been given to us.
Romans 5:6 For Christ died for the ungodly.
Romans 5:7 For one will scarcely die for a righteous person — though perhaps for a good person one would dare even to die —
Romans 5:8 but while we were still sinners, Christ died for us.
Romans 5:9 Since, therefore, the wrath of God.
Romans 5:10 For if his life.
Romans 5:11 More than that, we also rejoice in God through our Lord Jesus Christ, through whom we have now received reconciliation.
Romans 5:12 Therefore, just as all sinned —
Romans 5:13 for sin indeed was in the world before the law was given, but sin is not counted where there is no law.
Romans 5:14 Yet death reigned from Adam to Moses, even over those whose sinning was not the one who was to come.
Romans 5:15 But the free gift is not like the trespass. For if many died through one man's trespass, much more have the grace of God and the free gift by the grace of that one man Jesus Christ abounded for many.
Romans 5:16 And the free gift is not like the result of that one man's sin. For justification.
Romans 5:17 For if, because of one man's trespass, death reigned through that one man, much more will those who receive the abundance of grace and the free gift of righteousness reign in life through the one man Jesus Christ.
Romans 5:18 Therefore, as one trespass all men.
Romans 5:19 For as by the one man's obedience the many will be made righteous.
Romans 5:20 Now grace abounded all the more,
Romans 5:21 so that, grace also might reign through righteousness leading to eternal life through Jesus Christ our Lord.
Romans 6:1 What shall we say then? Are we to continue in sin that grace may abound?
Romans 6:2 By no means! How can we who died to sin still live in it?
Romans 6:3 Do you not know that all of us into Christ Jesus were baptized into his death?
Romans 6:4 We were newness of life.
Romans 6:5 For a death like his, we shall certainly be united with him in a resurrection like his.
Romans 6:6 We know that the body of sin might be brought to nothing, so that we would no longer be enslaved to sin.
Romans 6:7 For  from sin.
Romans 6:8 Now if we have died with Christ, we believe that we will also live with him.
Romans 6:9 We know that death no longer has dominion over him.
Romans 6:10 For the death he died he died to sin, once for all, but the life he lives he lives to God.
Romans 6:11 So you also must consider yourselves dead to sin and alive to God in Christ Jesus.
Romans 6:12 Let not sin therefore reign in your mortal body, to make you obey its passions.
Romans 6:13  present yourselves to God as those who have been brought from death to life, and your members to God as instruments for righteousness.
Romans 6:14 For will have no dominion over you, since you are not under law but under grace.
Romans 6:15 What then? because we are not under law but under grace? By no means!
Romans 6:16 Do you not know that if you present yourselves  you are slaves of the one whom you obey, either of sin, which leads to death, or of obedience, which leads to righteousness?
Romans 6:17 But standard of teaching to which you were committed,
Romans 6:18 and, have become slaves of righteousness.
Romans 6:19  as slaves to righteousness leading to sanctification.
Romans 6:20  For when you were slaves of sin, you were free in regard to righteousness.
Romans 6:21  For the end of those things is death.
Romans 6:22 But now that you its end, eternal life.
Romans 6:23  For the wages of sin is death, but the free gift of God is eternal life in Christ Jesus our Lord.
Romans 7:1 Or do you not know, brothers  — for I am speaking to those who know the law — that the law is binding on a person only as long as he lives?
Romans 7:2 For
Romans 7:3 Accordingly, she will be called an adulteress if she lives with another man while her husband is alive. But if her husband dies, she is free from that law, and if she marries another man she is not an adulteress.
Romans 7:4 Likewise, my brothers, in order that we may bear fruit for God.
Romans 7:5 For while we were living in the flesh, our sinful passions, aroused by the law, were at work to bear fruit for death.
Romans 7:6 But now we are released from the law, having died to that which held us captive, so that we serve in the
Romans 7:7 What then shall we say? That the law is sin? By no means! Yet if it had not been for the law, the law had not said, “You shall not covet.”
Romans 7:8 But sin, For apart from the law, sin lies dead.
Romans 7:9 I was once alive apart from the law, but when the commandment came, sin came alive and I died.
Romans 7:10 The very commandment that promised life proved to be death to me.
Romans 7:11 For sin, deceived me and through it killed me.
Romans 7:12 So the law is holy, and the commandment is holy and righteous and good.
Romans 7:13 Did that which is good, then, bring death to me? By no means! It was sin, producing death in me through what is good, in order that sin might be shown to be sin, and through the commandment might become sinful beyond measure.
Romans 7:14 For we know that the law is spiritual, but I am of the flesh, sold under sin.
Romans 7:15 For I do not understand my own actions. For I do not do what I want, but I do the very thing I hate.
Romans 7:16 Now if I do what I do not want, I agree with the law, that it is good.
Romans 7:17 So now it is no longer I who do it, but sin that dwells within me.
Romans 7:18 For I know that nothing good dwells in me, that is, in my flesh. For I have the desire to do what is right, but not the ability to carry it out.
Romans 7:19  For I do not do the good I want, but the evil I do not want is what I keep on doing.
Romans 7:20 Now if I do what I do not want, it is no longer I who do it, but sin that dwells within me.
Romans 7:21 So I find it to be a law that when I want to do right, evil lies close at hand.
Romans 7:22 For in my inner being,
Romans 7:23 but I see in my members another law waging war against the law of my mind and making me captive to the law of sin that dwells in my members.
Romans 7:24 Wretched man that I am! Who will deliver me from this body of death?
Romans 7:25 Thanks be to God through Jesus Christ our Lord! So then, I myself serve the law of God with my mind, but with my flesh I serve the law of sin.
Romans 8:1 There is therefore now no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus.
Romans 8:2 For the law of  free in Christ Jesus from the law of sin and death.
Romans 8:3 For  he condemned sin in the flesh,
Romans 8:4 in order that who walk not according to the flesh but according to the Spirit.
Romans 8:5 For the things of the Spirit.
Romans 8:6 For to set the mind on the flesh is death, but to set the mind on the Spirit is life and peace.
Romans 8:7 For the mind that is set on the flesh is indeed, it cannot.
Romans 8:8 Those who are in the flesh cannot please God.
Romans 8:9 You, however, are not in the flesh but in the Spirit, if in fact the Spirit of Christ does not belong to him.
Romans 8:10 But if Christ is in you, although the body is dead because of sin, the Spirit is life because of righteousness.
Romans 8:11 If the Spirit of through his Spirit who dwells in you.
Romans 8:12 So then, brothers, not to the flesh, to live according to the flesh.
Romans 8:13 For if you live according to the flesh you will die, but if by the Spirit you put to death the deeds of the body, you will live.
Romans 8:14 For all who are  of God.
Romans 8:15 For “Abba! Father!”
Romans 8:16  The Spirit himself bears witness with our spirit that we are children of God,
Romans 8:17 and if children, then provided we suffer with him in order that we may also be glorified with him.
Romans 8:18 For I consider that the sufferings of this present time are not worth comparing with the glory that is to be revealed to us.
Romans 8:19 For the creation waits with eager longing for the revealing of the sons of God.
Romans 8:20 For the creation because of him who subjected it, in hope
Romans 8:21 that the creation itself will be set free from its bondage to corruption and obtain the freedom of the glory of the children of God.
Romans 8:22 For we know that has been groaning together in the pains of childbirth until now.
Romans 8:23 And not only the creation, but we ourselves, who have the redemption of our bodies.
Romans 8:24 For hope that is seen is not hope. For who hopes for what he sees?
Romans 8:25 But if we hope for what we do not see, we wait for it with patience.
Romans 8:26 Likewise the Spirit helps us in our weakness. For the Spirit himself intercedes for us with groanings too deep for words.
Romans 8:27 And according to the will of God.
Romans 8:28 And we know that for those who love God all things work together those who are called according to his purpose.
Romans 8:29 For those whom he the firstborn among many brothers.
Romans 8:30 And those whom he predestined he also called, and those whom he called he also glorified.
Romans 8:31 What then shall we say to these things?  against us?
Romans 8:32  gave him up for us all, how will he not also with him graciously give us all things?
Romans 8:33 Who shall bring any charge against God's elect? It is God who justifies.
Romans 8:34
Romans 8:35 Who shall separate us from the love of Christ? Shall tribulation, or distress, or persecution, or famine, or nakedness, or danger, or sword?
Romans 8:36 As it is written,  we are being killed all the day long; we are regarded as sheep to be slaughtered.”
Romans 8:37 No, in all these things we are more than him who loved us.
Romans 8:38 For I am sure that neither death nor life, nor angels nor rulers, nor things present nor things to come, nor powers,
Romans 8:39 nor height nor depth, nor anything else in all creation, will be able to separate us from the love of God in Christ Jesus our Lord.
Romans 9:1  I am speaking the truth in Christ — I am not lying; my conscience bears me witness in the Holy Spirit —
Romans 9:2 that I have great sorrow and unceasing anguish in my heart.
Romans 9:3 For according to the flesh.
Romans 9:4 They are the promises.
Romans 9:5 To them belong blessed forever. Amen.
Romans 9:6 But it is not as though the word of God has failed. For not all who are descended from Israel belong to Israel,
Romans 9:7 and not all are children of Abraham “Through Isaac shall your offspring be named.”
Romans 9:8 This means that it is not the children of the flesh who are the children of God, but the children of the promise are counted as offspring.
Romans 9:9 For this is what the promise said: “About this time next year I will return, and Sarah shall have a son.”
Romans 9:10 And not only so, but also when Rebekah had conceived children by one man, our forefather Isaac,
Romans 9:11 though they were not yet born and had done nothing either good or bad — in order that God's purpose of election might continue, not because of works but because of him who calls —
Romans 9:12 she was told, “The older will serve the younger.”
Romans 9:13 As it is written, “Jacob I loved, but Esau I hated.”
Romans 9:14 What shall we say then? Is there injustice on God's part? By no means!
Romans 9:15 For he says to Moses, “I will have mercy on whom I have mercy, and I will have compassion on whom I have compassion.”
Romans 9:16 So then it depends not on human will or exertion,  but on God, who has mercy.
Romans 9:17 For the Scripture says to Pharaoh, “For this very purpose I have raised you up, that I might show my power in you, and that my name might be proclaimed in all the earth.”
Romans 9:18 So then he has mercy on whomever he wills, and he hardens whomever he wills.
Romans 9:19 You will say to me then, “Why does he still find fault? For who can resist his will?”
Romans 9:20 But who are you, O man, Will what is molded say to its molder, “Why have you made me like this?”
Romans 9:21  one vessel for honorable use and another for dishonorable use?
Romans 9:22 What if God, desiring to show his wrath and to make known his power, has endured with much patience prepared for destruction,
Romans 9:23 in order to make known has prepared beforehand for glory —
Romans 9:24 even us whom he not from the Jews only but also from the Gentiles?
Romans 9:25 As indeed he says in Hosea, “Those who were not my people I will call ‘my people,’ and her who was not beloved I will call ‘beloved.’”
Romans 9:26  ‘sons of the living God.’”
Romans 9:27 And Isaiah cries out concerning Israel: only a remnant of them will be saved,
Romans 9:28 for the Lord will carry out his sentence upon the earth fully and without delay.”
Romans 9:29 And as Isaiah predicted, we would have been like Sodom and become like Gomorrah.”
Romans 9:30 What shall we say, then? a righteousness that is by faith;
Romans 9:31 but that Israel did not succeed in reaching that law.
Romans 9:32 Why? Because they did not pursue it by faith, but as if it were based on works. They have stumbled over the stumbling stone,
Romans 9:33 as it is written,  put to shame.”
Romans 10:1 Brothers,  my heart's desire and prayer to God for them is that they may be saved.
Romans 10:2 For I bear them witness that but not according to knowledge.
Romans 10:3 For, being ignorant of the righteousness of God, and seeking to establish their own, they did not submit to God's righteousness.
Romans 10:4 For
Romans 10:5 For the person who does the commandments shall live by them.
Romans 10:6 But “Do not say in your heart, ‘Who will ascend into heaven?’” (that is, to bring Christ down)
Romans 10:7 “or ‘Who will descend into the to bring Christ up from the dead).
Romans 10:8 But what does it say? “The word is near you, in your mouth and in your heart” (that is, the word of faith that we proclaim);
Romans 10:9 because, if that God raised him from the dead, you will be saved.
Romans 10:10 For with the heart one believes and is justified, and with the mouth one confesses and is saved.
Romans 10:11 For the Scripture says, “Everyone who believes in him will not be put to shame.”
Romans 10:12  bestowing his riches on all who call on him.
Romans 10:13 For “everyone who calls on the name of the Lord will be saved.”
Romans 10:14 How then will they call on him in whom they have not believed? And how are they to believe in him without someone preaching?
Romans 10:15 And how are they to preach unless they are sent? As it is written, “How beautiful are the feet of those who preach the good news!”
Romans 10:16 But “Lord, who has believed what he has heard from us?”
Romans 10:17 So faith comes from hearing, and hearing through the word of Christ.
Romans 10:18 But I ask, have they not heard? Indeed they have, for  to all the earth, and their words to the ends of the world.”
Romans 10:19 But I ask, did Israel not understand? First Moses says,  foolish nation I will make you angry.”
Romans 10:20 Then Isaiah is so bold as to say, “I have been found by those who did not seek me; I have shown myself to those who did not ask for me.”
Romans 10:21 But of Israel he says, “All day long I have held out my hands to a disobedient and contrary people.”
Romans 11:1 I ask, then,  a member of the tribe of Benjamin.
Romans 11:2  foreknew. Do you not know what the Scripture says of Elijah, how he appeals to God against Israel?
Romans 11:3  “Lord, they have killed your prophets, they have demolished your altars, and I alone am left, and they seek my life.”
Romans 11:4 But what is God's reply to him? “I have kept for myself seven thousand men who have not bowed the knee to Baal.”
Romans 11:5 So too at the present time there is a remnant, chosen by grace.
Romans 11:6  But if it is by grace, it is no longer on the basis of works; otherwise grace would no longer be grace.
Romans 11:7 What then? were hardened,
Romans 11:8 as it is written, eyes that would not see and ears that would not hear, down to this very day.”
Romans 11:9 And David says, “Let their table become a snare and a trap, a stumbling block and a retribution for them;
Romans 11:10 let their eyes be darkened so that they cannot see, and bend their backs forever.”
Romans 11:11 So I ask, did they stumble in order that they might fall? By no means! Rather, through their trespass salvation has come to the Gentiles, so as to make Israel jealous.
Romans 11:12 Now if their trespass means riches for the world, and if their failure means riches for the Gentiles, how much more will their full inclusion  mean!
Romans 11:13 Now I am speaking to you Gentiles. Inasmuch then as I am an apostle to the Gentiles, I magnify my ministry
Romans 11:14 in order somehow to make my fellow Jews jealous, and thus save some of them.
Romans 11:15 For if their rejection means the reconciliation of the world, what will their acceptance mean but life from the dead?
Romans 11:16  If the dough offered as firstfruits is holy, so is the whole lump, and if the root is holy, so are the branches.
Romans 11:17 But if  of the olive tree,
Romans 11:18 do not be arrogant toward the branches. If you are, remember it is not you who support the root, but the root that supports you.
Romans 11:19 Then you will say, “Branches were broken off so that I might be grafted in.”
Romans 11:20 That is true. They were broken off because of their unbelief, but you fear.
Romans 11:21 For if God did not spare the natural branches, neither will he spare you.
Romans 11:22 Note then the kindness and the severity of God: severity toward those who have fallen, but God's kindness to you, you too will be cut off.
Romans 11:23 And even they, if they do not continue in their unbelief, will be grafted in, for God has the power to graft them in again.
Romans 11:24 For if you were cut from what is by nature a wild olive tree, and grafted, contrary to nature, into a cultivated olive tree, how much more will these, the natural branches, be grafted back into their own olive tree.
Romans 11:25  until the fullness of the Gentiles has come in.
Romans 11:26 And in this way all Israel will be saved, as it is written,  from Zion, he will banish ungodliness from Jacob”;
Romans 11:27 “and this will be mywhen I take away their sins.”
Romans 11:28 As regards the gospel, they are enemies for your sake. But as regards election, they are beloved for the sake of their forefathers.
Romans 11:29 For the gifts and the calling of God are irrevocable.
Romans 11:30 For just as you were at one time disobedient to God but now have received mercy because of their disobedience,
Romans 11:31 so they too have now been disobedient in order that by the mercy shown to you they also may now  receive mercy.
Romans 11:32 For God has consigned all to disobedience, that he may have mercy on all.
Romans 11:33 Oh, the depth of the riches and How unsearchable are his judgments and how inscrutable his ways!
Romans 11:34 “For who has been his counselor?”
Romans 11:35 “Or who has given a gift to him that he might be repaid?”
Romans 11:36 For To him be glory forever. Amen.
Romans 12:1
Romans 12:2
Romans 12:3 For the measure of faith that God has assigned.
Romans 12:4 For  and the members do not all have the same function,
Romans 12:5 so we, members one of another.
Romans 12:6  in proportion to our faith;
Romans 12:7 if service, in our serving; the one who teaches, in his teaching;
Romans 12:8 the one who exhorts, in his exhortation; the one who contributes, in generosity; cheerfulness.
Romans 12:9  Abhor what is evil; hold fast to what is good.
Romans 12:10  Outdo one another in showing honor.
Romans 12:11 Do not be slothful in zeal, serve the Lord.
Romans 12:12  be constant in prayer.
Romans 12:13  seek to show hospitality.
Romans 12:14  Bless those who persecute you; bless and do not curse them.
Romans 12:15  Rejoice with those who rejoice, weep with those who weep.
Romans 12:16  Never be wise in your own sight.
Romans 12:17  give thought to do what is honorable in the sight of all.
Romans 12:18 If possible, so far as it depends on you, live peaceably with all.
Romans 12:19 Beloved, “Vengeance is mine, I will repay, says the Lord.”
Romans 12:20 To the contrary, “if your enemy is hungry, feed him; if he is thirsty, give him something to drink; for by so doing you will heap burning coals on his head.”
Romans 12:21 Do not be overcome by evil, but overcome evil with good.
Romans 13:1 Let every person there is no authority except from God, and those that exist have been instituted by God.
Romans 13:2 Therefore whoever resists the authorities resists what God has appointed, and those who resist will incur judgment.
Romans 13:3 For rulers are not a terror to good conduct, but to bad. Would you have no fear of the one who is in authority? Then do what is good, and you will receive his approval,
Romans 13:4 for an avenger who carries out God's wrath on the wrongdoer.
Romans 13:5 Therefore one must be in subjection, not only to avoid God's wrath but also for the sake of conscience.
Romans 13:6 For because of this you also pay taxes, for the authorities are ministers of God, attending to this very thing.
Romans 13:7  Pay to all what is owed to them: taxes to whom taxes are owed, revenue to whom revenue is owed, respect to whom respect is owed, honor to whom honor is owed.
Romans 13:8  the one who loves another has fulfilled the law.
Romans 13:9 For the commandments, “You shall love your neighbor as yourself.”
Romans 13:10 Love does no wrong to a neighbor; therefore love is the fulfilling of the law.
Romans 13:11 Besides this you know the time, that the hour has come for you For salvation is nearer to us now than when we first believed.
Romans 13:12  put on the armor of light.
Romans 13:13  not in quarreling and jealousy.
Romans 13:14 But to gratify its desires.
Romans 14:1 As for the one who is weak in faith, welcome him, but not to quarrel over opinions.
Romans 14:2  One person believes he may eat anything, while the weak person eats only vegetables.
Romans 14:3 Let not the one who eats despise the one who abstains, and let not the one who abstains pass judgment on the one who eats, for God has welcomed him.
Romans 14:4   that he stands or falls. And he will be upheld, for the Lord is able to make him stand.
Romans 14:5  Each one should be fully convinced in his own mind.
Romans 14:6 The one who observes the day, observes it in honor of the Lord. The one who eats, eats in honor of the Lord, since he gives thanks to God, while the one who abstains, abstains in honor of the Lord and gives thanks to God.
Romans 14:7 For none of us lives to himself, and none of us dies to himself.
Romans 14:8 For if we live, we live to the Lord, and if we die, we die to the Lord. So then, whether we live or whether we die, we are the Lord's.
Romans 14:9 For to this end Christ of the dead and of the living.
Romans 14:10 Why do you pass judgment on your brother? Or you, why do you despise your brother? For the judgment seat of God;
Romans 14:11 for it is written,   to God.”
Romans 14:12 So then each of us will give an account of himself to God.
Romans 14:13  never to put a stumbling block or hindrance in the way of a brother.
Romans 14:14 I know and am persuaded in the Lord Jesus but it is unclean for anyone who thinks it unclean.
Romans 14:15 For if your brother is grieved by what you eat, By what you eat, do not destroy the one for whom Christ died.
Romans 14:16  So do not let what you regard as good be spoken of as evil.
Romans 14:17  peace and joy in the Holy Spirit.
Romans 14:18 Whoever thus serves Christ is acceptable to God and approved by men.
Romans 14:19 So then let us mutual upbuilding.
Romans 14:20  it is wrong for anyone to make another stumble by what he eats.
Romans 14:21
Romans 14:22 The faith that you have, keep between yourself and God. Blessed is the one who has no reason to pass judgment on himself for what he approves.
Romans 14:23 But whoever has doubts is condemned if he eats, because the eating is not from faith. For whatever does not proceed from faith is sin.
Romans 15:1  have an obligation to bear with the failings of the weak, and not to please ourselves.
Romans 15:2  Let each of us please his neighbor for his good, to build him up.
Romans 15:3 For “The reproaches of those who reproached you fell on me.”
Romans 15:4 For the encouragement of the Scriptures we might have hope.
Romans 15:5 May the God of endurance and encouragement grant you to live in such harmony with one another, in accord with Christ Jesus,
Romans 15:6 that together you may with one voice glorify the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ.
Romans 15:7 Therefore welcome one another as Christ has welcomed you, for the glory of God.
Romans 15:8 For I tell you that Christ to confirm the promises given to the patriarchs,
Romans 15:9 and in order“Therefore I will praise you among the Gentiles, and sing to your name.”
Romans 15:10 And again it is said, “Rejoice, O Gentiles, with his people.”
Romans 15:11 And again, “Praise the Lord, all you Gentiles, and let all the peoples extol him.”
Romans 15:12 And again Isaiah says, in him will the Gentiles hope.”
Romans 15:13 May the God of hope fill you with all joy and peace in believing, so that by the power of the Holy Spirit you may abound in hope.
Romans 15:14  all knowledge and able to instruct one another.
Romans 15:15 But on some points I have written to you very boldly by way of reminder, because of the grace given me by God
Romans 15:16 to be the offering of the Gentiles may be acceptable, sanctified by the Holy Spirit.
Romans 15:17 In Christ Jesus, then, I have my work for God.
Romans 15:18 For I will not venture to speak of anything except to bring the Gentiles to obedience — by word and deed,
Romans 15:19  to Illyricum I have fulfilled the ministry of the gospel of Christ;
Romans 15:20 and thus I make it my ambition to preach the gospel, not where Christ has already been named, lest I build on someone else's foundation,
Romans 15:21 but as it is written, “Those who have never been told of him will see, and those who have never heard will understand.”
Romans 15:22 This is the reason why I have so often been hindered from coming to you.
Romans 15:23 But now, since I no longer have any room for work in these regions, and since I have longed for many years to come to you,
Romans 15:24 I hope to see you in passing as I go to be helped on my journey there by you, once I have enjoyed your company for a while.
Romans 15:25 At present, however, I am going to Jerusalem bringing aid to the saints.
Romans 15:26 For Macedonia and Achaia have been pleased to make some contribution for the poor among the saints at Jerusalem.
Romans 15:27 For they were pleased to do it, and indeed they owe it to them. For if the Gentiles have come to share in their spiritual blessings, they ought also to be of service to them in material blessings.
Romans 15:28 When therefore I have completed this and have delivered to them what has been collected, for Spain by way of you.
Romans 15:29 I know that when I come to you I will come in the fullness of the blessing  of Christ.
Romans 15:30 I appeal to you, brothers, by our Lord Jesus Christ and by to strive together with me in your prayers to God on my behalf,
Romans 15:31  my service for Jerusalem may be acceptable to the saints,
Romans 15:32 so that by God's will I may come to you with joy and be refreshed in your company.
Romans 15:33 May the God of peace be with you all. Amen.
Romans 16:1 I commend to you our sister Phoebe, a servant Cenchreae,
Romans 16:2 that you may welcome her in the Lord in a way worthy of the saints, and help her in whatever she may need from you, for she has been a patron of many and of myself as well.
Romans 16:3 Greet Prisca and Aquila, my fellow workers in Christ Jesus,
Romans 16:4 who risked their necks for my life, to whom not only I give thanks but all the churches of the Gentiles give thanks as well.
Romans 16:5 Greet also  to Christ in Asia.
Romans 16:6 Greet Mary, who has worked hard for you.
Romans 16:7 Greet Andronicus and Junia,  and they were in Christ before me.
Romans 16:8 Greet Ampliatus, my beloved in the Lord.
Romans 16:9 Greet Urbanus, our fellow worker in Christ, and my beloved Stachys.
Romans 16:10 Greet Apelles, who is approved in Christ. Greet those who belong to the family of Aristobulus.
Romans 16:11 Greet my kinsman Herodion. Greet those in the Lord who belong to the family of Narcissus.
Romans 16:12 Greet those workers in the Lord, Tryphaena and Tryphosa. Greet the beloved Persis, who has worked hard in the Lord.
Romans 16:13 Greet Rufus, chosen in the Lord; also his mother, who has been a mother to me as well.
Romans 16:14 Greet Asyncritus, Phlegon, Hermes, Patrobas, Hermas, and the brothers  who are with them.
Romans 16:15 Greet Philologus, Julia, Nereus and his sister, and Olympas, and all the saints who are with them.
Romans 16:16  Greet one another with a holy kiss. All the churches of Christ greet you.
Romans 16:17 I appeal to you, brothers, to watch out for those who cause divisions and create obstacles avoid them.
Romans 16:18 For such persons do not serve our Lord Christ, but by smooth talk and flattery they deceive the hearts of the naive.
Romans 16:19 For to be wise as to what is good and innocent as to what is evil.
Romans 16:20  The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you.
Romans 16:21  Timothy, my fellow worker, greets you; so do Lucius and Jason and Sosipater, my kinsmen.
Romans 16:22 I Tertius, who wrote this letter, greet you in the Lord.
Romans 16:23
Romans 16:24
Romans 16:25  long ages
Romans 16:26 but to bring about the obedience of faith —
Romans 16:27 to be glory forevermore through Jesus Christ! Amen.
1 Corinthians 1:1 Paul, by the will of God to be an apostle of Christ Jesus, and our brother Sosthenes,
1 Corinthians 1:2 To the church of God that is in Corinth, to those call upon the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, both their Lord and ours:
1 Corinthians 1:3  Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ.
1 Corinthians 1:4 I give thanks to my God always for you because of the grace of God that was given you in Christ Jesus,
1 Corinthians 1:5 that in every way speech and all knowledge —
1 Corinthians 1:6 even as the testimony about Christ was confirmed among you —
1 Corinthians 1:7 so that you are not lacking in any gift, as you wait for the revealing of our Lord Jesus Christ,
1 Corinthians 1:8  in the day of our Lord Jesus Christ.
1 Corinthians 1:9  fellowship of his Son, Jesus Christ our Lord.
1 Corinthians 1:10 I appeal to you, brothers, in the same mind and the same judgment.
1 Corinthians 1:11 For it has been reported to me by Chloe's people that there is quarreling among you, my brothers.
1 Corinthians 1:12 What I mean is that Cephas,” or “I follow Christ.”
1 Corinthians 1:13  baptized in the name of Paul?
1 Corinthians 1:14 I thank God that I baptized none of you except Gaius,
1 Corinthians 1:15 so that no one may say that you were baptized in my name.
1 Corinthians 1:16 (I did baptize also the household of Stephanas. Beyond that, I do not know whether I baptized anyone else.)
1 Corinthians 1:17 For Christ did not send me to baptize but to preach the gospel, and not with words of eloquent wisdom, lest the cross of Christ be emptied of its power.
1 Corinthians 1:18 For the word of the cross is the power of God.
1 Corinthians 1:19 For it is written, “I will destroy the wisdom of the wise, and the discernment of the discerning I will thwart.”
1 Corinthians 1:20  Has not God made foolish the wisdom of the world?
1 Corinthians 1:21 For since, in the wisdom of God, the world did not know God through wisdom, it pleased God through the folly of what we preach  to save those who believe.
1 Corinthians 1:22 For Jews demand signs and Greeks seek wisdom,
1 Corinthians 1:23 but we preach Christ crucified, a stumbling block to Jews and folly to Gentiles,
1 Corinthians 1:24 but to those who are called, both Jews and Greeks, Christ the wisdom of God.
1 Corinthians 1:25 For the foolishness of God is wiser than men, and the weakness of God is stronger than men.
1 Corinthians 1:26 For consider your calling, brothers:  not many were powerful, not many were of noble birth.
1 Corinthians 1:27 But God chose what is weak in the world to shame the strong;
1 Corinthians 1:28 God chose what is low and despised in the world, even bring to nothing things that are,
1 Corinthians 1:29 so  might boast in the presence of God.
1 Corinthians 1:30 And because of him redemption,
1 Corinthians 1:31 so that, as it is written, “Let the one who boasts, boast in the Lord.”
1 Corinthians 2:1 And I, when I came to you, brothers,  of God with lofty speech or wisdom.
1 Corinthians 2:2 For I decided to know nothing among you except Jesus Christ and him crucified.
1 Corinthians 2:3 And in weakness and in fear and much trembling,
1 Corinthians 2:4 and my speech and my message were not in plausible words of wisdom, but in demonstration of the Spirit and of power,
1 Corinthians 2:5 so that your faith might not rest in the wisdom of men in the power of God.
1 Corinthians 2:6 Yet among who are doomed to pass away.
1 Corinthians 2:7 But we impart a secret and hidden wisdom of God, which God decreed before the ages for our glory.
1 Corinthians 2:8 None of the Lord of glory.
1 Corinthians 2:9 But, as it is written,  for those who love him” —
1 Corinthians 2:10 these things the depths of God.
1 Corinthians 2:11 For who knows a person's thoughts except the spirit of that person, which is in him? So also no one comprehends the thoughts of God except the Spirit of God.
1 Corinthians 2:12 Now the spirit of the world, but the Spirit who is from God, that we might understand the things freely given us by God.
1 Corinthians 2:13 And we impart this
1 Corinthians 2:14 The natural person does not accept the things of the Spirit of God, for they are he is not able to understand them because they are spiritually discerned.
1 Corinthians 2:15 The spiritual person judges all things, but is himself to be judged by no one.
1 Corinthians 2:16  we have the mind of Christ.
1 Corinthians 3:1 But I, brothers, infants in Christ.
1 Corinthians 3:2  you were not ready for it. And even now you are not yet ready,
1 Corinthians 3:3 for you are still of the flesh. For while there is jealousy and strife among you, are you not of the flesh and behaving only in a human way?
1 Corinthians 3:4 For are you not being merely human?
1 Corinthians 3:5 What then is Apollos? What is Paul? as the Lord assigned to each.
1 Corinthians 3:6  but God gave the growth.
1 Corinthians 3:7 So neither he who plants nor he who waters is anything, but only God who gives the growth.
1 Corinthians 3:8 He who plants and he who waters are one, and each will receive his wages according to his labor.
1 Corinthians 3:9 For we are God's building.
1 Corinthians 3:10  someone else is building upon it. Let each one take care how he builds upon it.
1 Corinthians 3:11 For no one can lay a which is Jesus Christ.
1 Corinthians 3:12 Now if anyone builds on the foundation with gold, silver, precious stones, wood, hay, straw —
1 Corinthians 3:13  the fire will test what sort of work each one has done.
1 Corinthians 3:14 If the work that anyone has built on the foundation survives, he will receive a reward.
1 Corinthians 3:15 If anyone's work is burned up, he will suffer loss, though he himself will be saved, but only as through fire.
1 Corinthians 3:16   are God's temple and that God's Spirit dwells in you?
1 Corinthians 3:17 If anyone destroys God's temple, God will destroy him. For God's temple is holy, and you are that temple.
1 Corinthians 3:18  If anyone among you thinks that he is wise in this age, let him become a fool that he may become wise.
1 Corinthians 3:19 For “He catches the wise in their craftiness,”
1 Corinthians 3:20 and again, “The Lord knows the thoughts of the wise, that they are futile.”
1 Corinthians 3:21 So all things are yours,
1 Corinthians 3:22 whether Paul or Apollos or Cephas or the world or life or death or the present or the future — all are yours,
1 Corinthians 3:23 and Christ is God's.
1 Corinthians 4:1 This is how one should regard us, as servants of Christ and stewards of the mysteries of God.
1 Corinthians 4:2 Moreover, it is required of stewards that they be found faithful.
1 Corinthians 4:3 But with me it is a very small thing that I should be judged by you or by any human court. In fact, I do not even judge myself.
1 Corinthians 4:4  but I am not thereby acquitted. It is the Lord who judges me.
1 Corinthians 4:5 Therefore Then each one will receive his commendation from God.
1 Corinthians 4:6 I have applied all these things to myself and Apollos for your benefit, brothers, be puffed up in favor of one against another.
1 Corinthians 4:7 For who sees anything different in you? What do you have that you did not receive? If then you received it, why do you boast as if you did not receive it?
1 Corinthians 4:8 Already you have all you want! Already you have become rich! Without us you have become kings! And would that you did reign, so that we might share the rule with you!
1 Corinthians 4:9 For I think that God has exhibited us apostles as last of all, have become a spectacle to the world, to angels, and to men.
1 Corinthians 4:10  We are weak, but you are strong. You are held in honor, but we in disrepute.
1 Corinthians 4:11 To the present hour homeless,
1 Corinthians 4:12 and we when persecuted, we endure;
1 Corinthians 4:13 when slandered, we entreat. the refuse of all things.
1 Corinthians 4:14 I do not write these things as my beloved children.
1 Corinthians 4:15 For I became your father in Christ Jesus through the gospel.
1 Corinthians 4:16 I urge you, then, be imitators of me.
1 Corinthians 4:17 That is why as I teach them everywhere in every church.
1 Corinthians 4:18 Some are as though I were not coming to you.
1 Corinthians 4:19 But I will come to you soon, if the Lord wills, and I will find out not the talk of these arrogant people but their power.
1 Corinthians 4:20 For the kingdom of God does not consist in talk but in power.
1 Corinthians 4:21 What do you wish? Shall I come to you with a rod, or with love in a spirit of gentleness?
1 Corinthians 5:1 It is actually reported that there is for a man has his father's wife.
1 Corinthians 5:2 And not rather to mourn? Let him who has done this be removed from among you.
1 Corinthians 5:3 For though absent in body, I am present in spirit; and as if present, I have already pronounced judgment on the one who did such a thing.
1 Corinthians 5:4 When you are assembled in the name of the Lord Jesus and my spirit is present, with the power of our Lord Jesus,
1 Corinthians 5:5 you are
1 Corinthians 5:6  a little leaven leavens the whole lump?
1 Corinthians 5:7 Cleanse out the old leaven that you may be a new lump, as you really are unleavened. For Christ, our Passover lamb, has been sacrificed.
1 Corinthians 5:8 Let us therefore celebrate the festival, the leaven of malice and evil, but with the unleavened bread of sincerity and truth.
1 Corinthians 5:9 I wrote to you in my letter not to associate with sexually immoral people —
1 Corinthians 5:10  since then you would need to go out of the world.
1 Corinthians 5:11 But now I am writing to you not to associate with anyone who bears the name of brother if he is guilty of sexual immorality or greed, or is an idolater, reviler, drunkard, or swindler — not even to eat with such a one.
1 Corinthians 5:12 For what have I to do with judging  whom you are to judge?
1 Corinthians 5:13 God judges “Purge the evil person from among you.”
1 Corinthians 6:1 When one of you has a grievance against another, does he dare go to law before the unrighteous instead of the saints?
1 Corinthians 6:2 Or do you not know that the saints will judge the world? And if the world is to be judged by you, are you incompetent to try trivial cases?
1 Corinthians 6:3 Do you not know that we are to judge angels? How much more, then, matters pertaining to this life!
1 Corinthians 6:4 So if you have such cases, why do you lay them before those who have no standing in the church?
1 Corinthians 6:5  I say this to your shame. Can it be that there is no one among you wise enough to settle a dispute between the brothers,
1 Corinthians 6:6 but brother goes to law against brother, and that before unbelievers?
1 Corinthians 6:7 To have lawsuits at all with one another is already a defeat for you. Why not rather suffer wrong? Why not rather be defrauded?
1 Corinthians 6:8 But you yourselves wrong and defraud — even
1 Corinthians 6:9 Or do you not know that the unrighteous
1 Corinthians 6:10 nor thieves, nor the greedy, nor drunkards, nor revilers, nor swindlers will inherit the kingdom of God.
1 Corinthians 6:11 And you were justified in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ and by the Spirit of our God.
1 Corinthians 6:12  “All things are lawful for me,” but not all things are helpful. “All things are lawful for me,” but I will not be dominated by anything.
1 Corinthians 6:13  the Lord for the body.
1 Corinthians 6:14 And by his power.
1 Corinthians 6:15 Do you not know that your bodies are members of Christ? Shall I then take the members of Christ and make them members of a prostitute? Never!
1 Corinthians 6:16 Or do you not know that he who is joined “The two will become one flesh.”
1 Corinthians 6:17 But he who is joined to the Lord becomes one spirit with him.
1 Corinthians 6:18  sins against his own body.
1 Corinthians 6:19 Or You are not your own,
1 Corinthians 6:20  So glorify God in your body.
1 Corinthians 7:1 Now concerning the matters about which you wrote: “It is good for a man not to have sexual relations with a woman.”
1 Corinthians 7:2 But because of the temptation to sexual immorality, each man should have his own wife and each woman her own husband.
1 Corinthians 7:3  The husband should give to his wife her conjugal rights, and likewise the wife to her husband.
1 Corinthians 7:4 For the wife does not have authority over her own body, but the husband does. Likewise the husband does not have authority over his own body, but the wife does.
1 Corinthians 7:5  so that Satan may not tempt you because of your lack of self-control.
1 Corinthians 7:6 Now as a concession,
1 Corinthians 7:7  one of one kind and one of another.
1 Corinthians 7:8 To the unmarried and the widows I say that as I am.
1 Corinthians 7:9 But if they cannot exercise self-control, they should marry. For it is better to marry than to burn with passion.
1 Corinthians 7:10 To the married the wife should not separate from her husband
1 Corinthians 7:11 (but if she does, the husband should not divorce his wife.
1 Corinthians 7:12 To the rest I say (I, not the Lord) that if any brother has a wife who is an unbeliever, and she consents to live with him, he should not divorce her.
1 Corinthians 7:13 If any woman has a husband who is an unbeliever, and he consents to live with her, she should not divorce him.
1 Corinthians 7:14 For the unbelieving husband is made holy because of his wife, and the unbelieving wife is made holy because of her husband. Otherwise your children would be unclean, but as it is, they are holy.
1 Corinthians 7:15 But if the unbelieving partner separates, let it be so. In such cases the brother or sister is not enslaved. God has called you to peace.
1 Corinthians 7:16 For how do you know, wife, whether you will save your husband? Or how do you know, husband, whether you will save your wife?
1 Corinthians 7:17 Only let each person lead the life all the churches.
1 Corinthians 7:18 Was anyone at the time of his call already circumcised? Let him not seek to remove the marks of circumcision. Was anyone at the time of his call uncircumcised? Let him not seek circumcision.
1 Corinthians 7:19  keeping the commandments of God.
1 Corinthians 7:20  Each one should remain in the condition in which he was called.
1 Corinthians 7:21 Were you a bondservant  when called? Do not be concerned about it. (But if you can gain your freedom, avail yourself of the opportunity.)
1 Corinthians 7:22 For he who was called in the Lord as a bondservant is a bondservant of Christ.
1 Corinthians 7:23  do not become bondservants of men.
1 Corinthians 7:24 So, brothers, in whatever condition each was called, there let him remain with God.
1 Corinthians 7:25 Now concerning trustworthy.
1 Corinthians 7:26 I think that in view of the present it is good for a person to remain as he is.
1 Corinthians 7:27 Are you bound to a wife? Do not seek to be free. Are you free from a wife? Do not seek a wife.
1 Corinthians 7:28 But if you do marry, you have not sinned, and if a betrothed woman  marries, she has not sinned. Yet those who marry will have worldly troubles, and I would spare you that.
1 Corinthians 7:29 This is what I mean, brothers: the appointed time has grown very short. From now on, let those who have wives live as though they had none,
1 Corinthians 7:30 and those who mourn as though they were not mourning, and those who rejoice as though they were not rejoicing, and those who buy as though they had no goods,
1 Corinthians 7:31 and those who deal with the world as though they had no dealings with it. For the present form of this world is passing away.
1 Corinthians 7:32 I want you to be The unmarried man is anxious about the things of the Lord, how to please the Lord.
1 Corinthians 7:33 But the married man is anxious about worldly things, how to please his wife,
1 Corinthians 7:34 and his interests are divided. And the unmarried or betrothed woman is anxious about the things of the Lord, how to be holy in body and spirit. But the married woman is anxious about worldly things, how to please her husband.
1 Corinthians 7:35 I say this for your own benefit, not to lay any restraint upon you, but to promote good order and to secure your undivided devotion to the Lord.
1 Corinthians 7:36 If anyone thinks that he is not behaving properly toward his betrothed,  passions are strong, and it has to be, let him do as he wishes: let them marry — it is no sin.
1 Corinthians 7:37 But whoever is firmly established in his heart, being under no necessity but having his desire under control, and has determined this in his heart, to keep her as his betrothed, he will do well.
1 Corinthians 7:38 So then he who marries his betrothed does well, and he who refrains from marriage will do even better.
1 Corinthians 7:39  in the Lord.
1 Corinthians 7:40 Yet that I too have the Spirit of God.
1 Corinthians 8:1 Now concerning but love builds up.
1 Corinthians 8:2  he does not yet know as he ought to know.
1 Corinthians 8:3 But if anyone loves God,
1 Corinthians 8:4 Therefore, as to the eating of food offered to idols, we know that “there is no God but one.”
1 Corinthians 8:5 For although there may be so-called gods in heaven or on earth — as indeed there are many “gods” and many “lords” —
1 Corinthians 8:6 yet through whom we exist.
1 Corinthians 8:7 However, not all possess this knowledge. But some, their conscience, being weak, is defiled.
1 Corinthians 8:8  Food will not commend us to God. We are no worse off if we do not eat, and no better off if we do.
1 Corinthians 8:9 But take care to the weak.
1 Corinthians 8:10 For if anyone sees you who have knowledge eating  if his conscience is weak, to eat food offered to idols?
1 Corinthians 8:11 And so by your knowledge this weak person is destroyed, the brother for whom Christ died.
1 Corinthians 8:12 Thus, sinning against your brothers you sin against Christ.
1 Corinthians 8:13 Therefore, if food makes my brother stumble, I will never eat meat, lest I make my brother stumble.
1 Corinthians 9:1  Are not you my workmanship in the Lord?
1 Corinthians 9:2 If to others I am not an apostle, at least I am to you, for you are the seal of my apostleship in the Lord.
1 Corinthians 9:3 This is my defense to those who would examine me.
1 Corinthians 9:4  Do we not have the right to eat and drink?
1 Corinthians 9:5  Cephas?
1 Corinthians 9:6 Or is it only Barnabas and I who have no right to refrain from working for a living?
1 Corinthians 9:7  Who plants a vineyard without eating any of its fruit? Or who tends a flock without getting some of the milk?
1 Corinthians 9:8 Do I say these things on human authority? Does not the Law say the same?
1 Corinthians 9:9 For it is written in the Law of Moses, “You shall not muzzle an ox when it treads out the grain.” Is it for oxen that God is concerned?
1 Corinthians 9:10 Does he not certainly speak for our sake? It was written the plowman should plow in hope and the thresher thresh in hope of sharing in the crop.
1 Corinthians 9:11  If we have sown spiritual things among you, is it too much if we reap material things from you?
1 Corinthians 9:12 If others share this rightful claim on you, do not we even more? Nevertheless, rather than put an obstacle in the way of the gospel of Christ.
1 Corinthians 9:13 Do you not know that those who are employed in the temple service get their food from the temple, and those who serve at the altar share in the sacrificial offerings?
1 Corinthians 9:14 In the same way, the Lord commanded that those who proclaim the gospel should get their living by the gospel.
1 Corinthians 9:15 But deprive me of my ground for boasting.
1 Corinthians 9:16 For if I preach the gospel, that gives me no ground for boasting. For necessity is laid upon me. Woe to me if I do not preach the gospel!
1 Corinthians 9:17 For if I do this of my own will, I have a reward, but if not of my own will, I am still entrusted with a stewardship.
1 Corinthians 9:18 What then is my reward? That in my preaching I may present the gospel free of charge, so as not to make full use of my right in the gospel.
1 Corinthians 9:19 For win more of them.
1 Corinthians 9:20  To the Jews I became as a Jew, in order to win Jews. To those under the law I became as one under the law (though not being myself under the law) that I might win those under the law.
1 Corinthians 9:21 To under the law of Christ) that I might win those outside the law.
1 Corinthians 9:22  by all means I might save some.
1 Corinthians 9:23 I do it all for the sake of the gospel, that I may share with them in its blessings.
1 Corinthians 9:24 Do you not know that in a race all the runners run, but only one receives run that you may obtain it.
1 Corinthians 9:25 Every an imperishable.
1 Corinthians 9:26 So I do not run aimlessly; I beating the air.
1 Corinthians 9:27 But I discipline my body and disqualified.
1 Corinthians 10:1 For I do not want you to be unaware, brothers, passed through the sea,
1 Corinthians 10:2 and all were baptized into Moses in the cloud and in the sea,
1 Corinthians 10:3 and spiritual food,
1 Corinthians 10:4 and all drank the same spiritual drink. For they drank from the spiritual Rock that followed them, and the Rock was Christ.
1 Corinthians 10:5 Nevertheless, with most of them God was not pleased, for  in the wilderness.
1 Corinthians 10:6 Now these things took place as examples for us, that we might not desire evil as they did.
1 Corinthians 10:7  “The people sat down to eat and drink and rose up to play.”
1 Corinthians 10:8  twenty-three thousand fell in a single day.
1 Corinthians 10:9 We must not put Christ were destroyed by serpents,
1 Corinthians 10:10 nor grumble, the Destroyer.
1 Corinthians 10:11 Now these things happened to them as an example, but on whom the end of the ages has come.
1 Corinthians 10:12 Therefore let anyone who thinks that he stands take heed lest he fall.
1 Corinthians 10:13 No temptation has overtaken you that is not common to man. he will not let you be tempted beyond your ability, but with the temptation he will also provide the way of escape, that you may be able to endure it.
1 Corinthians 10:14 Therefore, my beloved, flee from idolatry.
1 Corinthians 10:15 I speak as to sensible people; judge for yourselves what I say.
1 Corinthians 10:16  The bread that we break, is it not a participation in the body of Christ?
1 Corinthians 10:17 Because there is one bread, we who are many are one body, for we all partake of the one bread.
1 Corinthians 10:18 Consider are not those who eat the sacrifices participants in the altar?
1 Corinthians 10:19 What do I imply then? That food offered to idols is anything, or that an idol is anything?
1 Corinthians 10:20 No, I imply that what pagans sacrifice they offer to demons and not to God. I do not want you to be participants with demons.
1 Corinthians 10:21  the table of demons.
1 Corinthians 10:22  Are we stronger than he?
1 Corinthians 10:23  “All things are lawful,” but not all things are helpful. “All things are lawful,” but not all things build up.
1 Corinthians 10:24  Let no one seek his own good, but the good of his neighbor.
1 Corinthians 10:25  Eat whatever is sold in the meat market without raising any question on the ground of conscience.
1 Corinthians 10:26 For “the earth is the Lord's, and the fullness thereof.”
1 Corinthians 10:27 If one of the unbelievers invites you to dinner and you are disposed to go, eat whatever is set before you without raising any question on the ground of conscience.
1 Corinthians 10:28 But if someone says to you, “This has been offered in sacrifice,” then do not eat it, for the sake of the one who informed you, and for the sake of conscience —
1 Corinthians 10:29 I do not mean why should my liberty be determined by someone else's conscience?
1 Corinthians 10:30 If I partake with thankfulness, why am I denounced because of that for which I give thanks?
1 Corinthians 10:31 So, whether you eat or drink, or whatever you do, do all to the glory of God.
1 Corinthians 10:32  the church of God,
1 Corinthians 10:33 just as not seeking my own advantage, but that of many, that they may be saved.
1 Corinthians 11:1  Be imitators of me, as I am of Christ.
1 Corinthians 11:2 Now I commend you even as I delivered them to you.
1 Corinthians 11:3 But I want you to understand that the head of Christ is God.
1 Corinthians 11:4 Every man who prays or prophesies with his head covered dishonors his head,
1 Corinthians 11:5 but every wife as if her head were shaven.
1 Corinthians 11:6 For if a wife will not cover her head, then she should cut her hair short. But since it is disgraceful for a wife to cut off her hair or shave her head, let her cover her head.
1 Corinthians 11:7 For a man ought not to cover his head, since woman is the glory of man.
1 Corinthians 11:8 For man was not made from woman, but woman from man.
1 Corinthians 11:9 Neither was man created for woman, but woman for man.
1 Corinthians 11:10 That is why a wife ought to have a symbol of authority on her head, because of the angels.
1 Corinthians 11:11 Nevertheless, in the Lord woman is not independent of man nor man of woman;
1 Corinthians 11:12 for as woman was made from man, so man is now born of woman. And all things are from God.
1 Corinthians 11:13 Judge for yourselves: is it proper for a wife to pray to God with her head uncovered?
1 Corinthians 11:14 Does not nature itself teach you that if a man wears long hair it is a disgrace for him,
1 Corinthians 11:15 but if a woman has long hair, it is her glory? For her hair is given to her for a covering.
1 Corinthians 11:16  the churches of God.
1 Corinthians 11:17 But in the following instructions I do not commend you, because when you come together it is not for the better but for the worse.
1 Corinthians 11:18 For, in the first place, when you come together as a church,
1 Corinthians 11:19 for that those who are genuine among you may be recognized.
1 Corinthians 11:20 When you come together, it is not the Lord's supper that you eat.
1 Corinthians 11:21 For in eating, each one goes ahead with his own meal. One goes hungry, another gets drunk.
1 Corinthians 11:22 What! Do you not have houses to eat and drink in? Or do you despise humiliate those who have nothing? What shall I say to you? Shall I commend you in this? No, I will not.
1 Corinthians 11:23 For the Lord Jesus on the night when he was betrayed took bread,
1 Corinthians 11:24 and when he had given thanks, he broke it, and said, “This is my body, which is for
1 Corinthians 11:25 In the same way also he took the cup, after supper, saying, “This cup is the new covenant in my blood. Do this, as often as you drink it, in remembrance of me.”
1 Corinthians 11:26 For as often as you eat this bread and drink the cup, you proclaim the Lord's death until he comes.
1 Corinthians 11:27  the body and blood of the Lord.
1 Corinthians 11:28  Let a person examine himself, then, and so eat of the bread and drink of the cup.
1 Corinthians 11:29 For anyone who eats and drinks without discerning the body eats and drinks judgment on himself.
1 Corinthians 11:30 That is why many of you are weak and ill, and some
1 Corinthians 11:31   ourselves truly, we would not be judged.
1 Corinthians 11:32 But when we are judged by the Lord, condemned along with the world.
1 Corinthians 11:33 So then, my brothers,  one another —
1 Corinthians 11:34  when I come.
1 Corinthians 12:1 Now  I do not want you to be uninformed.
1 Corinthians 12:2 You know that mute idols, however you were led.
1 Corinthians 12:3 Therefore I want you to understand that no one can say “Jesus is Lord” except in the Holy Spirit.
1 Corinthians 12:4 Now the same Spirit;
1 Corinthians 12:5 and the same Lord;
1 Corinthians 12:6 and there are varieties of activities, but it is the same God who empowers them all in everyone.
1 Corinthians 12:7  To each is given the manifestation of the Spirit for the common good.
1 Corinthians 12:8 For to one is given through the Spirit the utterance of knowledge according to the same Spirit,
1 Corinthians 12:9 to another gifts of healing by the one Spirit,
1 Corinthians 12:10 to another the interpretation of tongues.
1 Corinthians 12:11 All these are empowered by one and the same Spirit, as he wills.
1 Corinthians 12:12 For just as so it is with Christ.
1 Corinthians 12:13 For all were made to drink of one Spirit.
1 Corinthians 12:14 For the body does not consist of one member but of many.
1 Corinthians 12:15 If the foot should say, “Because I am not a hand, I do not belong to the body,” that would not make it any less a part of the body.
1 Corinthians 12:16 And if the ear should say, “Because I am not an eye, I do not belong to the body,” that would not make it any less a part of the body.
1 Corinthians 12:17 If the whole body were an eye, where would be the sense of hearing? If the whole body were an ear, where would be the sense of smell?
1 Corinthians 12:18 But as it is, as he chose.
1 Corinthians 12:19 If all were a single member, where would the body be?
1 Corinthians 12:20 As it is, there are many parts,  yet one body.
1 Corinthians 12:21 The eye cannot say to the hand, “I have no need of you,” nor again the head to the feet, “I have no need of you.”
1 Corinthians 12:22 On the contrary, the parts of the body that seem to be weaker are indispensable,
1 Corinthians 12:23 and on those parts of the body that we think less honorable we bestow the greater honor, and our unpresentable parts are treated with greater modesty,
1 Corinthians 12:24 which our more presentable parts do not require. But God has so composed the body, giving greater honor to the part that lacked it,
1 Corinthians 12:25 that there may be no division in the body, but that the members may have the same care for one another.
1 Corinthians 12:26 If one member suffers, all suffer together; if one member is honored, all rejoice together.
1 Corinthians 12:27 Now members of it.
1 Corinthians 12:28 And various kinds of tongues.
1 Corinthians 12:29 Are all apostles? Are all prophets? Are all teachers? Do all work miracles?
1 Corinthians 12:30 Do all possess gifts of healing? Do all speak with tongues? Do all interpret?
1 Corinthians 12:31 But earnestly desire the higher gifts. And I will show you a still more excellent way.
1 Corinthians 13:1 If I speak in the tongues of men and of angels, but have not love, I am a noisy gong or a clanging cymbal.
1 Corinthians 13:2 And if I have so as to remove mountains, but have not love, I am nothing.
1 Corinthians 13:3   but have not love, I gain nothing.
1 Corinthians 13:4  is not arrogant
1 Corinthians 13:5 or rude. It
1 Corinthians 13:6 it rejoices with the truth.
1 Corinthians 13:7  endures all things.
1 Corinthians 13:8 Love never ends. As for prophecies, they will pass away; as for tongues, they will cease; as for knowledge, it will pass away.
1 Corinthians 13:9 For we know in part and we prophesy in part,
1 Corinthians 13:10 but when the perfect comes, the partial will pass away.
1 Corinthians 13:11 When I was a child, I spoke like a child, I thought like a child, I reasoned like a child. When I became a man, I gave up childish ways.
1 Corinthians 13:12 For I have been fully known.
1 Corinthians 13:13 So now faith, hope, and love abide, these three; but the greatest of these is love.
1 Corinthians 14:1  prophesy.
1 Corinthians 14:2 For one who speaks in a tongue speaks not to men but to God; for no one understands him, but he utters mysteries in the Spirit.
1 Corinthians 14:3 On the other hand, the one who prophesies speaks to people for their upbuilding and encouragement and consolation.
1 Corinthians 14:4 The one who speaks in a tongue builds up himself, but the one who prophesies builds up the church.
1 Corinthians 14:5 Now I want you all to speak in tongues, but even more to prophesy. The one who prophesies is greater than the one who speaks in tongues, unless someone interprets, so that the church may be built up.
1 Corinthians 14:6 Now, brothers, teaching?
1 Corinthians 14:7 If even lifeless instruments, such as the flute or the harp, do not give distinct notes, how will anyone know what is played?
1 Corinthians 14:8 And if the bugle gives an indistinct sound, who will get ready for battle?
1 Corinthians 14:9 So with yourselves, if with your tongue you utter speech that is not intelligible, how will anyone know what is said? For you will be speaking into the air.
1 Corinthians 14:10 There are doubtless many different languages in the world, and none is without meaning,
1 Corinthians 14:11 but if I do not know the meaning of the language, I will be a foreigner to the speaker and the speaker a foreigner to me.
1 Corinthians 14:12 So with yourselves, since you are eager for manifestations of the Spirit, strive to excel in building up the church.
1 Corinthians 14:13 Therefore, one who speaks in a tongue should pray that he may interpret.
1 Corinthians 14:14 For if I pray in a tongue, my spirit prays but my mind is unfruitful.
1 Corinthians 14:15 What am I to do? I will pray with my spirit, but I will pray with my mind also; sing with my mind also.
1 Corinthians 14:16 Otherwise, if you give thanks with your spirit, how can anyone in the position of an outsider your thanksgiving when he does not know what you are saying?
1 Corinthians 14:17 For you may be giving thanks well enough, but the other person is not being built up.
1 Corinthians 14:18 I thank God that I speak in tongues more than all of you.
1 Corinthians 14:19 Nevertheless, in church I would rather speak five words with my mind in order to instruct others, than ten thousand words in a tongue.
1 Corinthians 14:20 Brothers, mature.
1 Corinthians 14:21  “By people of strange tongues and by the lips of foreigners will I speak to this people, and even then they will not listen to me, says the Lord.”
1 Corinthians 14:22 Thus tongues are a sign not for believers but for unbelievers, while prophecy is a sign  not for unbelievers but for believers.
1 Corinthians 14:23 If, therefore, the whole church comes together and all speak in tongues, and outsiders or unbelievers enter, will they not say that you are out of your minds?
1 Corinthians 14:24 But if all prophesy, and an unbeliever or outsider enters, he is convicted by all, he is called to account by all,
1 Corinthians 14:25  declare that God is really among you.
1 Corinthians 14:26 What then, brothers? When you come together, each one has Let all things be done for building up.
1 Corinthians 14:27 If any speak in a tongue, let there be only two or at most three, and each in turn, and let someone interpret.
1 Corinthians 14:28 But if there is no one to interpret, let each of them keep silent in church and speak to himself and to God.
1 Corinthians 14:29 Let two or three prophets speak, and let the others weigh what is said.
1 Corinthians 14:30 If a revelation is made to another sitting there, let the first be silent.
1 Corinthians 14:31 For you can all prophesy one by one, so that all may learn and all be encouraged,
1 Corinthians 14:32 and the spirits of prophets are subject to prophets.
1 Corinthians 14:33 For God is not a God of all the churches of the saints,
1 Corinthians 14:34  the Law also says.
1 Corinthians 14:35 If there is anything they desire to learn, let them ask their husbands at home. For it is shameful for a woman to speak in church.
1 Corinthians 14:36 Or was it from you that the word of God came? Or are you the only ones it has reached?
1 Corinthians 14:37  If anyone thinks that he is a prophet, or spiritual, he should acknowledge that the things I am writing to you are a command of the Lord.
1 Corinthians 14:38 If anyone does not recognize this, he is not recognized.
1 Corinthians 14:39 So, my brothers, earnestly desire to prophesy, and do not forbid speaking in tongues.
1 Corinthians 14:40  in order.
1 Corinthians 15:1 Now I would remind you, brothers, in which you stand,
1 Corinthians 15:2 and by which unless you believed in vain.
1 Corinthians 15:3 For in accordance with the Scriptures,
1 Corinthians 15:4 that he was buried, that he was raised in accordance with the Scriptures,
1 Corinthians 15:5 and that to the twelve.
1 Corinthians 15:6 Then he appeared to more than five hundred brothers at one time, most of whom are still alive, though some have fallen asleep.
1 Corinthians 15:7 Then he appeared to to all the apostles.
1 Corinthians 15:8 Last of all, as to one untimely born, he appeared also to me.
1 Corinthians 15:9 For I persecuted the church of God.
1 Corinthians 15:10 But by the grace of God I am what I am, and his grace toward me was not in vain. On the contrary, though it was not I, but the grace of God that is with me.
1 Corinthians 15:11 Whether then it was I or they, so we preach and so you believed.
1 Corinthians 15:12 Now if Christ is proclaimed as raised from the dead, how can some of you say that there is no resurrection of the dead?
1 Corinthians 15:13 But if there is no resurrection of the dead, then not even Christ has been raised.
1 Corinthians 15:14 And if Christ has not been raised, then our preaching is in vain and your faith is in vain.
1 Corinthians 15:15 We are even found to be misrepresenting God, because we testified about God that he raised Christ, whom he did not raise if it is true that the dead are not raised.
1 Corinthians 15:16 For if the dead are not raised, not even Christ has been raised.
1 Corinthians 15:17 And if Christ has not been raised, your faith is futile and you are still in your sins.
1 Corinthians 15:18 Then those also who have fallen asleep in Christ have perished.
1 Corinthians 15:19 If in Christ we have hope we are of all people most to be pitied.
1 Corinthians 15:20 But in fact the firstfruits of those who have fallen asleep.
1 Corinthians 15:21 For as by a man has come also the resurrection of the dead.
1 Corinthians 15:22 For as in Adam all die, so also in Christ shall all be made alive.
1 Corinthians 15:23 But each in his own order: Christ the firstfruits, then those who belong to Christ.
1 Corinthians 15:24 Then comes the end, when he delivers every rule and every authority and power.
1 Corinthians 15:25 For he must reign until he has put all his enemies under his feet.
1 Corinthians 15:26 The last enemy to be destroyed is death.
1 Corinthians 15:27 For  has put all things in subjection under his feet.” But when it says, “all things are put in subjection,” it is plain that he is excepted who put all things in subjection under him.
1 Corinthians 15:28 When God may be all in all.
1 Corinthians 15:29 Otherwise, what do people mean by being baptized on behalf of the dead? If the dead are not raised at all, why are people baptized on their behalf?
1 Corinthians 15:30 Why are we in danger every hour?
1 Corinthians 15:31 I protest, brothers, by I die every day!
1 Corinthians 15:32 What do I gain if, humanly speaking, “Let us eat and drink, for tomorrow we die.”
1 Corinthians 15:33
1 Corinthians 15:34  I say this to your shame.
1 Corinthians 15:35 But someone will ask, “How are the dead raised? With what kind of body do they come?”
1 Corinthians 15:36 You foolish person! What you sow does not come to life unless it dies.
1 Corinthians 15:37 And what you sow is not the body that is to be, but a bare kernel, perhaps of wheat or of some other grain.
1 Corinthians 15:38 But God gives it a body as he has chosen, and to each kind of seed its own body.
1 Corinthians 15:39 For not all flesh is the same, but there is one kind for humans, another for animals, another for birds, and another for fish.
1 Corinthians 15:40 There are heavenly bodies and earthly bodies, but the glory of the heavenly is of one kind, and the glory of the earthly is of another.
1 Corinthians 15:41 There is one glory of the sun, and another glory of the moon, and another glory of the stars; for star differs from star in glory.
1 Corinthians 15:42  So is it with the resurrection of the dead. What is sown is perishable; what is raised is imperishable.
1 Corinthians 15:43 It is sown in dishonor; it is raised in glory. It is sown in weakness; it is raised in power.
1 Corinthians 15:44 It is sown a natural body; it is raised a spiritual body. If there is a natural body, there is also a spiritual body.
1 Corinthians 15:45 Thus it is written, life-giving spirit.
1 Corinthians 15:46 But it is not the spiritual that is first but the natural, and then the spiritual.
1 Corinthians 15:47  the second man is from heaven.
1 Corinthians 15:48 As was the man of dust, so also are those who are of the dust, and as is the man of heaven, so also are those who are of heaven.
1 Corinthians 15:49 Just  also bear the image of the man of heaven.
1 Corinthians 15:50 I tell you this, brothers: cannot inherit the kingdom of God, nor does the perishable inherit the imperishable.
1 Corinthians 15:51 Behold! I tell you a mystery. but we shall all be changed,
1 Corinthians 15:52 in a moment, in the twinkling of an eye, at the last trumpet. For the dead will be raised imperishable, and we shall be changed.
1 Corinthians 15:53 For this perishable body must put on the imperishable, and this mortal body must put on immortality.
1 Corinthians 15:54 When the perishable puts on the imperishable, and the mortal puts on immortality, then shall come to pass the saying that is written: “Death is swallowed up in victory.”
1 Corinthians 15:55  “O death, where is your victory? O death, where is your sting?”
1 Corinthians 15:56 The sting of death is sin, and the power of sin is the law.
1 Corinthians 15:57 But thanks be to God, who gives us the victory through our Lord Jesus Christ.
1 Corinthians 15:58  your labor is not in vain.
1 Corinthians 16:1 Now concerning the collection for the saints: as I directed the churches of Galatia, so you also are to do.
1 Corinthians 16:2 On so that there will be no collecting when I come.
1 Corinthians 16:3 And when I arrive, I will send those whom you accredit by letter to carry your gift to Jerusalem.
1 Corinthians 16:4 If it seems advisable that I should go also, they will accompany me.
1 Corinthians 16:5  I intend to pass through Macedonia,
1 Corinthians 16:6 and perhaps I will stay with you or even spend the winter, so that you may help me on my journey, wherever I go.
1 Corinthians 16:7 For I do not want to see you now if the Lord permits.
1 Corinthians 16:8 But I will stay in Ephesus until Pentecost,
1 Corinthians 16:9 for there are many adversaries.
1 Corinthians 16:10  the work of the Lord, as I am.
1 Corinthians 16:11 So in peace, that he may return to me, for I am expecting him with the brothers.
1 Corinthians 16:12 Now concerning  to come now. He will come when he has opportunity.
1 Corinthians 16:13  be strong.
1 Corinthians 16:14  Let all that you do be done in love.
1 Corinthians 16:15 Now I urge you, brothers to the service of the saints —
1 Corinthians 16:16  be subject to such as these, and to every fellow worker and laborer.
1 Corinthians 16:17 I rejoice at the coming of Stephanas and Fortunatus and Achaicus, because they have made up for your absence,
1 Corinthians 16:18 for they Give recognition to such people.
1 Corinthians 16:19 The churches of Asia send you greetings. the church in their house, send you hearty greetings in the Lord.
1 Corinthians 16:20 All the brothers send you greetings. Greet one another with a holy kiss.
1 Corinthians 16:21 I, Paul, write this greeting with my own hand.
1 Corinthians 16:22 If anyone has no love for the Lord, let him be
1 Corinthians 16:23  The grace of the Lord Jesus be with you.
1 Corinthians 16:24 My love be with you all in Christ Jesus. Amen.
2 Corinthians 1:1 Paul, with all the saints who are in the whole of Achaia:
2 Corinthians 1:2  Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ.
2 Corinthians 1:3  God of all comfort,
2 Corinthians 1:4  who comforts us in all our affliction, so that we may be able to comfort those who are in any affliction, with the comfort with which we ourselves are comforted by God.
2 Corinthians 1:5 For as we share abundantly in
2 Corinthians 1:6  If we are afflicted, it is for your comfort and salvation; and if we are comforted, it is for your comfort, which you experience when you patiently endure the same sufferings that we suffer.
2 Corinthians 1:7 Our hope for you is unshaken, for we know that as you share in our sufferings, you will also share in our comfort.
2 Corinthians 1:8 For we do not want you to be unaware, brothers, the affliction we experienced in Asia. For we were so utterly burdened beyond our strength that we despaired of life itself.
2 Corinthians 1:9 Indeed, we felt that we had received the sentence of death. But that was to make us who raises the dead.
2 Corinthians 1:10  On him we have set our hope that he will deliver us again.
2 Corinthians 1:11  for the blessing granted us through the prayers of many.
2 Corinthians 1:12 For our boast is this, not by earthly wisdom but by the grace of God, and supremely so toward you.
2 Corinthians 1:13 For we are not writing to you anything other than what you read and understand and I hope you will fully understand —
2 Corinthians 1:14 just as you did we will boast of you.
2 Corinthians 1:15 Because I was sure of this, experience of grace.
2 Corinthians 1:16 I wanted to visit you on my way to Macedonia, and to come back to you from Macedonia and have you send me on my way to Judea.
2 Corinthians 1:17 Was I vacillating when I wanted to do this? Do I make my plans according to the flesh, ready to say “Yes, yes” and “No, no” at the same time?
2 Corinthians 1:18 As surely as our word to you has not been Yes and No.
2 Corinthians 1:19 For in him it is always Yes.
2 Corinthians 1:20 For Amen to God for his glory.
2 Corinthians 1:21 And it is God who establishes us with you in Christ, and has anointed us,
2 Corinthians 1:22 and who has also
2 Corinthians 1:23 But to spare you that I refrained from coming again to Corinth.
2 Corinthians 1:24 Not that we in your faith.
2 Corinthians 2:1 For I made up my mind not to make another painful visit to you.
2 Corinthians 2:2 For if I cause you pain, who is there to make me glad but the one whom I have pained?
2 Corinthians 2:3 And I wrote as I did, so that when I came I might not suffer pain from those who should have made me rejoice, for I felt sure of all of you, that my joy would be the joy of you all.
2 Corinthians 2:4 For I wrote to you out of much affliction and anguish of heart and with many tears, not to cause you pain but to let you know the abundant love that I have for you.
2 Corinthians 2:5 Now in some measure — not to put it too severely — to all of you.
2 Corinthians 2:6 For such a one, this punishment by the majority is enough,
2 Corinthians 2:7 so you should rather turn to forgive and comfort him, or he may be overwhelmed by excessive sorrow.
2 Corinthians 2:8 So I beg you to reaffirm your love for him.
2 Corinthians 2:9 For this is why I wrote, that I might whether you are obedient in everything.
2 Corinthians 2:10 Anyone whom you forgive, I also forgive. Indeed, what I have forgiven, if I have forgiven anything, has been for your sake in the presence of Christ,
2 Corinthians 2:11 so that we would not be outwitted by Satan; for we are not ignorant of his designs.
2 Corinthians 2:12 When a door was opened for me in the Lord,
2 Corinthians 2:13 my spirit was not at rest because I did not find my brother Titus there. So I took leave of them and went on to Macedonia.
2 Corinthians 2:14 But the fragrance of the knowledge of him everywhere.
2 Corinthians 2:15 For we are the aroma of Christ to God among those who are perishing,
2 Corinthians 2:16  Who is sufficient for these things?
2 Corinthians 2:17 For we are not, like so many, peddlers of God's word, but as men of sincerity, as commissioned by God, in the sight of God we speak in Christ.
2 Corinthians 3:1  letters of recommendation to you, or from you?
2 Corinthians 3:2   hearts, to be known and read by all.
2 Corinthians 3:3 And you show that you are a letter from Christ delivered by us, written not with ink but with the Spirit of
2 Corinthians 3:4  Such is the confidence that we have through Christ toward God.
2 Corinthians 3:5  our sufficiency is from God,
2 Corinthians 3:6 who has made us sufficient to be the Spirit gives life.
2 Corinthians 3:7 Now if that the Israelites could not gaze at Moses' face because of its glory, which was being brought to an end,
2 Corinthians 3:8 will not the ministry of the Spirit have even more glory?
2 Corinthians 3:9 For if there was glory in the ministry of righteousness must far exceed it in glory.
2 Corinthians 3:10 Indeed, in this case, what once had glory has come to have no glory at all, because of the glory that surpasses it.
2 Corinthians 3:11 For if what was being brought to an end came with glory, much more will what is permanent have glory.
2 Corinthians 3:12 Since we have such a hope, we are very bold,
2 Corinthians 3:13 not like Moses, who would put a veil over his face so that the Israelites might not gaze at the outcome of what was being brought to an end.
2 Corinthians 3:14 But the old covenant, that same veil remains unlifted, because only through Christ is it taken away.
2 Corinthians 3:15 Yes, to this day whenever Moses is read a veil lies over their hearts.
2 Corinthians 3:16 But when the veil is removed.
2 Corinthians 3:17 Now the Lord freedom.
2 Corinthians 3:18 And we all, with unveiled face,  For this comes from the Lord who is the Spirit.
2 Corinthians 4:1 Therefore, having  we do not lose heart.
2 Corinthians 4:2 But we have renounced we would commend ourselves to everyone's conscience in the sight of God.
2 Corinthians 4:3 And even those who are perishing.
2 Corinthians 4:4 In their case who is the image of God.
2 Corinthians 4:5 For what  for Jesus' sake.
2 Corinthians 4:6 For God, who said, the light of the knowledge of the glory of God in the face of Jesus Christ.
2 Corinthians 4:7 But we have this treasure in to show that the surpassing power belongs to God and not to us.
2 Corinthians 4:8 We are afflicted in every way, but not crushed; perplexed, but not driven to despair;
2 Corinthians 4:9 persecuted, but struck down, but not destroyed;
2 Corinthians 4:10  so that the life of Jesus may also be manifested in our bodies.
2 Corinthians 4:11 For we who live are always being given over to death for Jesus' sake, so that the life of Jesus also may be manifested in our mortal flesh.
2 Corinthians 4:12 So death is at work in us, but life in you.
2 Corinthians 4:13 Since we have “I believed, and so I spoke,” we also believe, and so we also speak,
2 Corinthians 4:14 knowing that bring us with you into his presence.
2 Corinthians 4:15 For to the glory of God.
2 Corinthians 4:16 So we do not lose heart. is being renewed day by day.
2 Corinthians 4:17 For this light momentary affliction is preparing for us an eternal weight of glory beyond all comparison,
2 Corinthians 4:18  as we look not to the things that are seen but to the things that are unseen. For the things that are seen are transient, but the things that are unseen are eternal.
2 Corinthians 5:1 For we know that if a house not made with hands, eternal in the heavens.
2 Corinthians 5:2 For in this tent put on our heavenly dwelling,
2 Corinthians 5:3 if indeed by putting it on  we may not be found naked.
2 Corinthians 5:4 For while we are still in this tent, we groan, being burdened — not that we would be unclothed, but that we would be further clothed, so that what is mortal may be swallowed up by life.
2 Corinthians 5:5 He who has prepared us for this very thing is God, who has given us the Spirit as a guarantee.
2 Corinthians 5:6 So we are always of good courage. We know that while we are at home in the body we are away from the Lord,
2 Corinthians 5:7 for by sight.
2 Corinthians 5:8 Yes, we are of good courage, and we would rather be away from the body and at home with the Lord.
2 Corinthians 5:9 So whether we are at home or away, we make it our aim to please him.
2 Corinthians 5:10 For so that each one may receive what is due for what he has done in the body, whether good or evil.
2 Corinthians 5:11 Therefore, knowing what we are is known to God, and I hope it is known also to your conscience.
2 Corinthians 5:12  giving you cause to boast about us, so that you may be able to answer those who boast about outward appearance and not about what is in the heart.
2 Corinthians 5:13 For if we are beside ourselves, it is for God; if we are in our right mind, it is for you.
2 Corinthians 5:14 For the love of Christ one has died for all, therefore all have died;
2 Corinthians 5:15 and he died for all, for him who for their sake died and was raised.
2 Corinthians 5:16 From now on, therefore, we regard no one according to the flesh. Even though we once regarded Christ according to the flesh, we regard him thus no longer.
2 Corinthians 5:17 Therefore, if anyone is The old has passed away; behold, the new has come.
2 Corinthians 5:18 All this is from God, the ministry of reconciliation;
2 Corinthians 5:19 that is, in Christ God was reconciling the message of reconciliation.
2 Corinthians 5:20 Therefore, God making his appeal through us. We implore you on behalf of Christ, be reconciled to God.
2 Corinthians 5:21  the righteousness of God.
2 Corinthians 6:1  not to receive the grace of God in vain.
2 Corinthians 6:2 For he says,  favorable time; behold, now is the day of salvation.
2 Corinthians 6:3 We put no obstacle in anyone's way, so that no fault may be found with our ministry,
2 Corinthians 6:4 but hardships, calamities,
2 Corinthians 6:5  riots, labors, sleepless nights, hunger;
2 Corinthians 6:6  genuine love;
2 Corinthians 6:7 by the weapons of righteousness for the right hand and for the left;
2 Corinthians 6:8 through honor and dishonor, through slander and praise. We are treated as impostors, and yet are true;
2 Corinthians 6:9 as unknown, and as punished, and yet not killed;
2 Corinthians 6:10  yet possessing everything.
2 Corinthians 6:11 We have spoken freely to you, our heart is wide open.
2 Corinthians 6:12 You are not restricted by us, but you are restricted in your own affections.
2 Corinthians 6:13  as to children) widen your hearts also.
2 Corinthians 6:14  what fellowship has light with darkness?
2 Corinthians 6:15   Or what portion does a believer share with an unbeliever?
2 Corinthians 6:16 What agreement has the temple of God with idols? For I will be their God, and they shall be my people.
2 Corinthians 6:17 Therefore go out from their midst, and be separate from them, says the Lord, and touch no unclean thing; then I will welcome you,
2 Corinthians 6:18  and I will be a father to you, and you shall be sons and daughters to me, says the Lord Almighty.”
2 Corinthians 7:1 Since we have these promises, beloved,  and spirit, bringing holiness to completion in the fear of God.
2 Corinthians 7:2  We have wronged no one, we have corrupted no one, we have taken advantage of no one.
2 Corinthians 7:3 I do not say this to condemn you, for I said before that you are in our hearts, to die together and to live together.
2 Corinthians 7:4 I am acting with I am filled with comfort. In all our affliction, I am overflowing with joy.
2 Corinthians 7:5 For even fighting without and fear within.
2 Corinthians 7:6 But comforted us by the coming of Titus,
2 Corinthians 7:7 and not only by his coming but also by the comfort with which he was comforted by you, as he told us of your longing, your mourning, your zeal for me, so that I rejoiced still more.
2 Corinthians 7:8 For I did regret it, for I see that that letter grieved you, though only for a while.
2 Corinthians 7:9 As it is, I rejoice, not because you were grieved, but because you were grieved into repenting. For you felt a godly grief, so that you suffered no loss through us.
2 Corinthians 7:10 For worldly grief produces death.
2 Corinthians 7:11 For see what earnestness this godly grief has produced in you, but also what eagerness to clear yourselves, what indignation, what fear, what longing, what zeal, what punishment! At every point you have proved yourselves innocent in the matter.
2 Corinthians 7:12 So although I wrote to you, it was not for the sake of the one who did the wrong, nor for the sake of the one who suffered the wrong, but in order that your earnestness for us might be revealed to you in the sight of God.
2 Corinthians 7:13 Therefore has been refreshed by you all.
2 Corinthians 7:14 For was true, so also our boasting before Titus has proved true.
2 Corinthians 7:15 And his affection for you is even greater, as he remembers the obedience of you all, how you received him with fear and trembling.
2 Corinthians 7:16 I rejoice, because I have complete confidence in you.
2 Corinthians 8:1 We want you to know, brothers, given among the churches of Macedonia,
2 Corinthians 8:2 for in a severe test of affliction, their abundance of joy and their extreme poverty have overflowed in a wealth of generosity on their part.
2 Corinthians 8:3 For they gave according to their means, as I can testify, and beyond their means, of their own accord,
2 Corinthians 8:4 begging us earnestly the relief of the saints —
2 Corinthians 8:5 and this, not as we expected, but they gave themselves first to the Lord and then by the will of God to us.
2 Corinthians 8:6 Accordingly, this act of grace.
2 Corinthians 8:7 But as see that you excel in this act of grace also.
2 Corinthians 8:8  I say this not as a command, but to prove by the earnestness of others that your love also is genuine.
2 Corinthians 8:9 For you know the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ, that though he was rich, yet for your sake he became poor, so that you by his poverty might become rich.
2 Corinthians 8:10 And in this matter a year ago started not only to do this work but also to desire to do it.
2 Corinthians 8:11 So now finish doing it as well, so that your readiness in desiring it may be matched by your completing it out of what you have.
2 Corinthians 8:12 For if the readiness is there, it is acceptable according to what a person has, not according to what he does not have.
2 Corinthians 8:13 For I do not mean that others should be eased and you burdened, but that as a matter of fairness
2 Corinthians 8:14 your abundance at the present time should supply their need, so that their abundance may supply your need, that there may be fairness.
2 Corinthians 8:15 As it is written, “Whoever gathered much had nothing left over, and whoever gathered little had no lack.”
2 Corinthians 8:16 But who put into the heart of Titus the same earnest care I have for you.
2 Corinthians 8:17 For  to you of his own accord.
2 Corinthians 8:18 With him we are sending all the churches for his preaching of the gospel.
2 Corinthians 8:19 And not only that, but he has been for the glory of the Lord himself and to show our good will.
2 Corinthians 8:20 We take this course so that no one should blame us about this generous gift that is being administered by us,
2 Corinthians 8:21 for not only in the Lord's sight but also in the sight of man.
2 Corinthians 8:22 And with them we are sending our brother whom we have often tested and found earnest in many matters, but who is now more earnest than ever because of his great confidence in you.
2 Corinthians 8:23 As for Titus, he is  of the churches, the glory of Christ.
2 Corinthians 8:24 So give proof before the churches of your love and of our boasting about you to these men.
2 Corinthians 9:1 Now the ministry for the saints,
2 Corinthians 9:2 for I know your readiness, since last year. And your zeal has stirred up most of them.
2 Corinthians 9:3 But as I said you would be.
2 Corinthians 9:4 Otherwise, if some Macedonians come with me and find that you are not ready, we would be humiliated — to say nothing of you — for being so confident.
2 Corinthians 9:5 So I thought it necessary to urge the brothers to go on ahead to you and arrange in advance for the
2 Corinthians 9:6 The point is this:  will also reap bountifully.
2 Corinthians 9:7 Each one must give as he has decided in his heart, God loves a cheerful giver.
2 Corinthians 9:8 And  in all things at all times, you may abound in every good work.
2 Corinthians 9:9 As it is written, “He has distributed freely, he has given to the poor; his righteousness endures forever.”
2 Corinthians 9:10 He who supplies increase the harvest of your righteousness.
2 Corinthians 9:11  through us will produce thanksgiving to God.
2 Corinthians 9:12 For the ministry of this service is not only supplying the needs of the saints but is also overflowing in many thanksgivings to God.
2 Corinthians 9:13 By their approval of this service, confession of the gospel of Christ, and the generosity of your contribution for them and for all others,
2 Corinthians 9:14 while they long for you and pray for you, because of the surpassing grace of God upon you.
2 Corinthians 9:15  Thanks be to God for his inexpressible gift!
2 Corinthians 10:1  meekness and gentleness of Christ — I who am humble when face to face with you, but bold toward you when I am away! —
2 Corinthians 10:2 I beg of you boldness with such confidence as I count on showing against some who suspect us of walking according to the flesh.
2 Corinthians 10:3 For though we walk in the flesh, we are not waging war according to the flesh.
2 Corinthians 10:4 For the to destroy strongholds.
2 Corinthians 10:5 We destroy arguments and obey Christ,
2 Corinthians 10:6  when your obedience is complete.
2 Corinthians 10:7  so also are we.
2 Corinthians 10:8 For even if I boast a little too much of our authority, which the Lord gave for building you up and not for destroying you, I will not be ashamed.
2 Corinthians 10:9 I do not want to appear to be frightening you with my letters.
2 Corinthians 10:10 For they say, “His letters are weighty and strong, but his speech of no account.”
2 Corinthians 10:11 Let such a person understand that what we say by letter when absent, we do when present.
2 Corinthians 10:12 Not that we dare to classify or without understanding.
2 Corinthians 10:13 But we will not boast to reach even to you.
2 Corinthians 10:14 For we are not overextending ourselves, as though we did not reach you. For we were the first to come all the way to you with the gospel of Christ.
2 Corinthians 10:15 We do not boast beyond limit in the labors of others. But our hope is that greatly enlarged,
2 Corinthians 10:16 so that we may preach the gospel in lands beyond you, without boasting of work already done in another's area of influence.
2 Corinthians 10:17 “Let the one who boasts, boast in the Lord.”
2 Corinthians 10:18 For it is whom the Lord commends.
2 Corinthians 11:1 I wish you would bear with me in a little foolishness. Do bear with me!
2 Corinthians 11:2 For I feel a divine jealousy for you, since as a pure virgin to Christ.
2 Corinthians 11:3 But I am afraid that pure devotion to Christ.
2 Corinthians 11:4 For if someone comes and a different gospel from the one you accepted, you put up with it readily enough.
2 Corinthians 11:5 Indeed, I consider that I am not in the least inferior to these super-apostles.
2 Corinthians 11:6  we have made this plain to you in all things.
2 Corinthians 11:7 Or I preached God's gospel to you free of charge?
2 Corinthians 11:8 I robbed other churches by accepting support from them in order to serve you.
2 Corinthians 11:9 And when I was with you and was from burdening you in any way.
2 Corinthians 11:10  will not be silenced in the regions of Achaia.
2 Corinthians 11:11 And why? God knows I do!
2 Corinthians 11:12 And what I am doing I will continue to do, in order to undermine the claim of those who would like to claim that in their boasted mission they work on the same terms as we do.
2 Corinthians 11:13 For such men are disguising themselves as apostles of Christ.
2 Corinthians 11:14 And no wonder, for even Satan disguises himself as an angel of light.
2 Corinthians 11:15 So it is no surprise if his servants, also, disguise themselves as Their end will correspond to their deeds.
2 Corinthians 11:16 I repeat, let no one think me foolish. But even if you do, accept me as a fool, so that I too may boast a little.
2 Corinthians 11:17 What I am saying  but as a fool.
2 Corinthians 11:18 Since many boast according to the flesh, I too will boast.
2 Corinthians 11:19 For you gladly bear with fools, being wise yourselves!
2 Corinthians 11:20 For you bear it if someone strikes you in the face.
2 Corinthians 11:21 To my shame, I must say, we were too weak for that! But whatever anyone else dares to boast of — I am speaking as a fool — I also dare to boast of that.
2 Corinthians 11:22 Are they Hebrews? So am I. Are they Israelites? So am I. Are they offspring of Abraham? So am I.
2 Corinthians 11:23 Are they often near death.
2 Corinthians 11:24 Five times I received at the hands of the Jews the forty lashes less one.
2 Corinthians 11:25 Three times I was was shipwrecked; a night and a day I was adrift at sea;
2 Corinthians 11:26 on frequent journeys, in danger from rivers, danger from robbers, danger in the city, danger in the wilderness, danger at sea, danger from false brothers;
2 Corinthians 11:27   in cold and exposure.
2 Corinthians 11:28 And, apart from other things, there is the daily pressure on me of my anxiety for all the churches.
2 Corinthians 11:29  Who is weak, and I am not weak? Who is made to fall, and I am not indignant?
2 Corinthians 11:30  If I must boast, I will boast of the things that show my weakness.
2 Corinthians 11:31  knows that I am not lying.
2 Corinthians 11:32 At Damascus, the governor under King Aretas was guarding the city of Damascus in order to seize me,
2 Corinthians 11:33  but I was let down in a basket through a window in the wall and escaped his hands.
2 Corinthians 12:1 I must go on boasting. Though there is nothing to be gained by it, I will go on to visions and revelations of the Lord.
2 Corinthians 12:2 I know a man God knows.
2 Corinthians 12:3 And I know that this man was caught up into God knows —
2 Corinthians 12:4 and he heard things that cannot be told, which man may not utter.
2 Corinthians 12:5 On behalf of this man I will boast, but on my own behalf I will not boast, except of my weaknesses —
2 Corinthians 12:6 though if I should wish to boast, I would not be a fool, for I would be speaking the truth; but I refrain from it, so that no one may think more of me than he sees in me or hears from me.
2 Corinthians 12:7 So a messenger of Satan to harass me, to keep me from becoming conceited.
2 Corinthians 12:8  Three times I pleaded with the Lord about this, that it should leave me.
2 Corinthians 12:9 But he said to me,  the power of Christ may rest upon me.
2 Corinthians 12:10  when I am weak, then I am strong.
2 Corinthians 12:11  even though I am nothing.
2 Corinthians 12:12  with utmost patience, with signs and wonders and mighty works.
2 Corinthians 12:13 For in what were you less favored than the rest of the churches, except that I myself did not burden you? Forgive me this wrong!
2 Corinthians 12:14 Here parents for their children.
2 Corinthians 12:15  I love you more, am I to be loved less?
2 Corinthians 12:16 But granting that I myself did not burden you, I was crafty, you say, and got the better of you by deceit.
2 Corinthians 12:17 Did I take advantage of you through any of those whom I sent to you?
2 Corinthians 12:18  the brother with him. Did Titus take advantage of you? Did we not act in the same spirit? Did we not take the same steps?
2 Corinthians 12:19 Have you been thinking all along that we have been defending ourselves to you? It is all for your upbuilding, beloved.
2 Corinthians 12:20 For I fear that perhaps when I come I may find you not as I wish, and that you may find me not as you wish — that perhaps there may be quarreling, jealousy, anger, hostility, slander, gossip, conceit, and disorder.
2 Corinthians 12:21 I fear that when I come again my God may humble me before you, and I may have to mourn over many of those sexual immorality, and sensuality that they have practiced.
2 Corinthians 13:1  by the evidence of two or three witnesses.
2 Corinthians 13:2  if I come again I will not spare them —
2 Corinthians 13:3 since you seek proof that Christ is powerful among you.
2 Corinthians 13:4 For we will live with him by the power of God.
2 Corinthians 13:5 Examine yourselves, to see whether you are in the faith. Jesus Christ is in you? — unless indeed you fail to meet the test!
2 Corinthians 13:6 I hope you will find out that we have not failed the test.
2 Corinthians 13:7 But we pray to God that you may not do wrong — not that we may appear to have met the test, but that you may do what is right, though we may seem to have failed.
2 Corinthians 13:8 For we cannot do anything against the truth, but only for the truth.
2 Corinthians 13:9 For we are glad when restoration is what we pray for.
2 Corinthians 13:10 For this reason I write these things while I am away from you, that when I come the authority that the Lord has given me for building up and not for tearing down.
2 Corinthians 13:11 Finally, brothers, peace will be with you.
2 Corinthians 13:12  Greet one another with a holy kiss.
2 Corinthians 13:13  All the saints greet you.
2 Corinthians 13:14  the fellowship of the Holy Spirit be with you all.
Galatians 1:1 Paul, an who raised him from the dead —
Galatians 1:2 and all the churches of Galatia:
Galatians 1:3  from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ,
Galatians 1:4  our God and Father,
Galatians 1:5 to whom be the glory forever and ever. Amen.
Galatians 1:6 I am astonished that you are a different gospel —
Galatians 1:7  there are some who trouble you and want to distort the gospel of Christ.
Galatians 1:8 But even if we or let him be accursed.
Galatians 1:9 As we have said before, so now I say again: If anyone is preaching to you a gospel contrary to the one you received, let him be accursed.
Galatians 1:10 For am I now seeking the approval of man, or of God? Or am I trying  of Christ.
Galatians 1:11 For
Galatians 1:12  through a revelation of Jesus Christ.
Galatians 1:13 For you have heard of I persecuted the church of God violently and tried to destroy it.
Galatians 1:14 And I was advancing in Judaism beyond many of my own age among my people, so extremely the traditions of my fathers.
Galatians 1:15 But when he called me by his grace,
Galatians 1:16 was pleased to reveal his Son to
Galatians 1:17 nor did I go up to Jerusalem to those who were apostles before me, but I went away into Arabia, and returned again to Damascus.
Galatians 1:18 Then after three years I went up to Jerusalem to visit Cephas and remained with him fifteen days.
Galatians 1:19 But I saw none of the other apostles except James the Lord's brother.
Galatians 1:20 (In what I am writing to you, before God, I do not lie!)
Galatians 1:21  Then I went into the regions of Syria and Cilicia.
Galatians 1:22 And I was still unknown in person to the churches of Judea that are in Christ.
Galatians 1:23 They only were hearing it said, “He who used to persecute us is now preaching the faith he once tried to destroy.”
Galatians 1:24 And they glorified God because of me.
Galatians 2:1 Then after fourteen years I went up again to Jerusalem with Barnabas, taking Titus along with me.
Galatians 2:2 I went up because of a revelation and set before them (though privately before those run in vain.
Galatians 2:3 But even Titus, who was with me, was not forced to be circumcised, though he was a Greek.
Galatians 2:4  so that they might bring us into slavery —
Galatians 2:5 to them we did not yield in submission even for a moment, so that the truth of the gospel might be preserved for you.
Galatians 2:6 And from those added nothing to me.
Galatians 2:7 On the contrary, when they saw that I had been the gospel to the uncircumcised, just as Peter had been entrusted with the gospel to the circumcised
Galatians 2:8 (for he who worked through Peter for his apostolic ministry to the circumcised worked also through me for mine to the Gentiles),
Galatians 2:9 and when James and Cephas and John, gave the right hand of fellowship to Barnabas and me, that we should go to the Gentiles and they to the circumcised.
Galatians 2:10 Only, they asked us to remember the poor, the very thing I was eager to do.
Galatians 2:11 But to his face, because he stood condemned.
Galatians 2:12 For before certain men came from James,
Galatians 2:13 And the rest of the Jews acted hypocritically along with him, so that even Barnabas was led astray by their hypocrisy.
Galatians 2:14 But when I saw that their live like a Gentile and not like a Jew, how can you force the Gentiles to live like Jews?”
Galatians 2:15 We ourselves are Jews by birth and not Gentile sinners;
Galatians 2:16 yet we know that because by works of the law no one will be justified.
Galatians 2:17 But if, in our endeavor to be justified in Christ, we too were found to be sinners, is Christ then a servant of sin? Certainly not!
Galatians 2:18 For if I rebuild what I tore down, I prove myself to be a transgressor.
Galatians 2:19 For through the law I live to God.
Galatians 2:20 I have been gave himself for me.
Galatians 2:21 I do not nullify the grace of God, for then Christ died for no purpose.
Galatians 3:1 O foolish Galatians! Who has bewitched you? portrayed as crucified.
Galatians 3:2 Let me ask you only this: hearing with faith?
Galatians 3:3 Are you so foolish?  the flesh?
Galatians 3:4   so many things in vain — if indeed it was in vain?
Galatians 3:5 Does he who supplies the Spirit to you and by works of the law, or by hearing with faith —
Galatians 3:6 just as Abraham “believed God, and it was counted to him as righteousness”?
Galatians 3:7 Know then that it is the sons of Abraham.
Galatians 3:8 And the Scripture, foreseeing that “In you shall all the nations be blessed.”
Galatians 3:9 So then, those who are of faith are blessed along with Abraham, the man of faith.
Galatians 3:10 For all who rely on works of the law are abide by all things written in the Book of the Law, and do them.”
Galatians 3:11 Now it is evident that
Galatians 3:12 But the law is not of faith, rather “The one who does them shall live by them.”
Galatians 3:13 Christ on a tree” —
Galatians 3:14 so that in Christ Jesus the blessing of Abraham might  through faith.
Galatians 3:15  even with a man-made covenant, no one annuls it or adds to it once it has been ratified.
Galatians 3:16 Now “And to your offspring,” who is Christ.
Galatians 3:17 This is what I mean: the law, which came to make the promise void.
Galatians 3:18 For if the inheritance comes by the law, it no longer comes by promise; but God gave it to Abraham by a promise.
Galatians 3:19 Why then the law? by an intermediary.
Galatians 3:20 Now God is one.
Galatians 3:21 Is the law then contrary to the promises of God? Certainly not! For if a law had been given that could give life, then righteousness would indeed be by the law.
Galatians 3:22 But the Scripture to those who believe.
Galatians 3:23 Now before faith came, we were held captive under the law, imprisoned until the coming faith would be revealed.
Galatians 3:24 So then, in order that we might be justified by faith.
Galatians 3:25 But now that faith has come, we are no longer under a guardian,
Galatians 3:26 for in Christ Jesus you are all sons of God, through faith.
Galatians 3:27 For as many of you as put on Christ.
Galatians 3:28  there is no male and female, for you are all one in Christ Jesus.
Galatians 3:29 And heirs according to promise.
Galatians 4:1 I mean that the heir, as long as he is a child, is no different from a slave,  though he is the owner of everything,
Galatians 4:2 but he is under guardians and managers until the date set by his father.
Galatians 4:3 In the same way we also, when we were children,  of the world.
Galatians 4:4 But under the law,
Galatians 4:5  adoption as sons.
Galatians 4:6 And because you are sons, God has sent the Spirit of his Son into our hearts, crying, “Abba! Father!”
Galatians 4:7 So you are no longer a slave, but a son, and if a son, then an heir through God.
Galatians 4:8 Formerly, when you are not gods.
Galatians 4:9 But now that you have come to know God, or rather the weak and worthless elementary principles of the world, whose slaves you want to be once more?
Galatians 4:10  You observe days and months and seasons and years!
Galatians 4:11 I am afraid I may have labored over you in vain.
Galatians 4:12 Brothers, You did me no wrong.
Galatians 4:13 You know it was at first,
Galatians 4:14 and though my condition was a trial to you, you did not scorn or despise me, but received me as Christ Jesus.
Galatians 4:15 What then has become of your blessedness? For I testify to you that, if possible, you would have gouged out your eyes and given them to me.
Galatians 4:16 Have I then become your enemy by
Galatians 4:17 They make much of you, but for no good purpose. They want to shut you out, that you may make much of them.
Galatians 4:18 It is always good to be made much of for a good purpose, and not only when I am present with you,
Galatians 4:19  is formed in you!
Galatians 4:20 I wish I could be present with you now and change my tone, for I am perplexed about you.
Galatians 4:21 Tell me, you who desire to be under the law, do you not listen to the law?
Galatians 4:22 For it is written that Abraham had two sons, one by a free woman.
Galatians 4:23 But the son of the free woman was born through promise.
Galatians 4:24 Now this may be interpreted allegorically: these women are two One is from Mount Sinai, bearing children for slavery; she is Hagar.
Galatians 4:25 Now Hagar is Mount Sinai in Arabia;  she corresponds to the present Jerusalem, for she is in slavery with her children.
Galatians 4:26 But the Jerusalem above is free, and she is our mother.
Galatians 4:27 For it is written, “Rejoice, O barren one who does not bear; break forth and cry aloud, you who are not in labor! For the children of the desolate one will be more than those of the one who has a husband.”
Galatians 4:28 Now you, are children of promise.
Galatians 4:29 But just as at that time he who was born according to the flesh so also it is now.
Galatians 4:30 But what does the Scripture say? “Cast out the slave woman and her son, for the son of the slave woman shall not inherit with the son of the free woman.”
Galatians 4:31 So, brothers, we are not children of the slave but of the free woman.
Galatians 5:1 For slavery.
Galatians 5:2 Look: I, Paul, say to you that Christ will be of no advantage to you.
Galatians 5:3 I testify again to every man who accepts circumcision that he is obligated to keep the whole law.
Galatians 5:4 You are you have fallen away from grace.
Galatians 5:5 For through the Spirit, by faith, we ourselves eagerly wait for the hope of righteousness.
Galatians 5:6 For in Christ Jesus only faith working through love.
Galatians 5:7  the truth?
Galatians 5:8 This persuasion is not from him who calls you.
Galatians 5:9  A little leaven leavens the whole lump.
Galatians 5:10  the one who is troubling you will bear the penalty, whoever he is.
Galatians 5:11 But if I, brothers, the offense of the cross has been removed.
Galatians 5:12 I wish those who unsettle you would emasculate themselves!
Galatians 5:13 For you were called to freedom, brothers. serve one another.
Galatians 5:14 For “You shall love your neighbor as yourself.”
Galatians 5:15 But if you bite and devour one another, watch out that you are not consumed by one another.
Galatians 5:16 But I say, the desires of the flesh.
Galatians 5:17 For to keep you from doing the things you want to do.
Galatians 5:18 But if you are you are not under the law.
Galatians 5:19 Now the works of the flesh are evident: sexual immorality, impurity, sensuality,
Galatians 5:20 idolatry, sorcery, enmity, strife, jealousy, fits of anger, rivalries, dissensions, divisions,
Galatians 5:21 envy,  such things will not inherit the kingdom of God.
Galatians 5:22 But kindness, goodness, faithfulness,
Galatians 5:23  against such things there is no law.
Galatians 5:24 And those who belong to Christ Jesus passions and desires.
Galatians 5:25 If we live by the Spirit, let us also keep in step with the Spirit.
Galatians 5:26  Let us not become conceited, provoking one another, envying one another.
Galatians 6:1 Brothers, a spirit of gentleness. Keep watch on yourself, lest you too be tempted.
Galatians 6:2  the law of Christ.
Galatians 6:3 For when he is nothing, he deceives himself.
Galatians 6:4 But let each one test his own work, and then his reason to boast will be in himself alone and not in his neighbor.
Galatians 6:5 For each will have to bear his own load.
Galatians 6:6  Let the one who is taught the word share all good things with the one who teaches.
Galatians 6:7  whatever one sows, that will he also reap.
Galatians 6:8 For the one who sows to the Spirit will from the Spirit reap eternal life.
Galatians 6:9 And if we do not give up.
Galatians 6:10 So then, of the household of faith.
Galatians 6:11 See with what large letters I am writing to you with my own hand.
Galatians 6:12  in order that they may not be persecuted for the cross of Christ.
Galatians 6:13 For even those who are circumcised do not themselves keep the law, but they desire to have you circumcised that they may boast in your flesh.
Galatians 6:14 But far be it from me to boast has been crucified to me, and I to the world.
Galatians 6:15 For a new creation.
Galatians 6:16 And as for all who walk by this rule, the Israel of God.
Galatians 6:17 From now on let no one cause me trouble, for I bear on my body the marks of Jesus.
Galatians 6:18  with your spirit, brothers. Amen.
Ephesians 1:1 Paul,  in Christ Jesus:
Ephesians 1:2  Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ.
Ephesians 1:3  in the heavenly places,
Ephesians 1:4  holy and blameless before him. In love
Ephesians 1:5  according to the purpose of his will,
Ephesians 1:6  the Beloved.
Ephesians 1:7  according to the riches of his grace,
Ephesians 1:8 which he lavished upon us, in all wisdom and insight
Ephesians 1:9  set forth in Christ
Ephesians 1:10 as a plan for to unite all things in him, things in heaven and things on earth.
Ephesians 1:11 In him we have obtained the counsel of his will,
Ephesians 1:12 so that we who were the first to hope in Christ might be to the praise of his glory.
Ephesians 1:13 In him you also, when you heard promised Holy Spirit,
Ephesians 1:14 who is to the praise of his glory.
Ephesians 1:15 For this reason,  toward all the saints,
Ephesians 1:16 I remembering you in my prayers,
Ephesians 1:17 that may give you the Spirit of wisdom and of revelation in the knowledge of him,
Ephesians 1:18  the riches of his glorious inheritance in the saints,
Ephesians 1:19 and what is the immeasurable greatness of his power toward us who believe, his great might
Ephesians 1:20 that he worked in Christ in the heavenly places,
Ephesians 1:21  this age but also in the one to come.
Ephesians 1:22 And head over all things to the church,
Ephesians 1:23  all in all.
Ephesians 2:1  dead in the trespasses and sins
Ephesians 2:2  the sons of disobedience —
Ephesians 2:3 among whom we all once lived in
Ephesians 2:4 But because of the great love with which he loved us,
Ephesians 2:5 even by grace you have been saved —
Ephesians 2:6 and raised us up with him and seated us with him in the heavenly places in Christ Jesus,
Ephesians 2:7 so that in the coming ages he might show the immeasurable kindness toward us in Christ Jesus.
Ephesians 2:8 For it is the gift of God,
Ephesians 2:9  so that no one may boast.
Ephesians 2:10 For that we should walk in them.
Ephesians 2:11 Therefore remember that at one time you Gentiles in the flesh, called “the uncircumcision” by what is called the circumcision, which is made in the flesh by hands —
Ephesians 2:12 remember having no hope and without God in the world.
Ephesians 2:13 But now in Christ Jesus you who once were by the blood of Christ.
Ephesians 2:14 For in his flesh the dividing wall of hostility
Ephesians 2:15 by abolishing the law of commandments expressed in new man in place of the two, so making peace,
Ephesians 2:16 and might reconcile us both to God in one body through the cross, thereby killing the hostility.
Ephesians 2:17 And he came and near.
Ephesians 2:18 For one Spirit to the Father.
Ephesians 2:19 So then you are no longer members of the household of God,
Ephesians 2:20  the cornerstone,
Ephesians 2:21  a holy temple in the Lord.
Ephesians 2:22 In him  the Spirit.
Ephesians 3:1 For this reason I, Paul, on behalf of you Gentiles —
Ephesians 3:2 assuming that you have heard of God's grace that was given to me for you,
Ephesians 3:3  as I have written briefly.
Ephesians 3:4  the mystery of Christ,
Ephesians 3:5 which was not made known to the sons of men in other generations as it has now been revealed to his holy apostles and prophets by the Spirit.
Ephesians 3:6 This mystery is partakers of the promise in Christ Jesus through the gospel.
Ephesians 3:7  by the working of his power.
Ephesians 3:8 To me, riches of Christ,
Ephesians 3:9 and who created all things,
Ephesians 3:10 so that through the church the manifold in the heavenly places.
Ephesians 3:11 This was according to the eternal purpose that he has realized in Christ Jesus our Lord,
Ephesians 3:12 in whom we have faith in him.
Ephesians 3:13 So I ask you not to lose heart over what I am suffering which is your glory.
Ephesians 3:14 For this reason I bow my knees before the Father,
Ephesians 3:15 from whom  in heaven and on earth is named,
Ephesians 3:16 that according to in your inner being,
Ephesians 3:17  grounded in love,
Ephesians 3:18 may have strength to height and depth,
Ephesians 3:19 and to know the love of Christ the fullness of God.
Ephesians 3:20  according to the power at work within us,
Ephesians 3:21  to him be glory in the church and in Christ Jesus throughout all generations, forever and ever. Amen.
Ephesians 4:1 I therefore, the calling to which you have been called,
Ephesians 4:2 with all bearing with one another in love,
Ephesians 4:3 eager to maintain the unity of the Spirit in the bond of peace.
Ephesians 4:4 There is hope that belongs to your call —
Ephesians 4:5  one baptism,
Ephesians 4:6  who is over all and through all and in all.
Ephesians 4:7 But according to the measure of Christ's gift.
Ephesians 4:8 Therefore it says,
Ephesians 4:9 (
Ephesians 4:10 He who descended is the one who also fill all things.)
Ephesians 4:11 And
Ephesians 4:12  the body of Christ,
Ephesians 4:13 until we all attain to the fullness of Christ,
Ephesians 4:14 so that we may no longer be children, deceitful schemes.
Ephesians 4:15 Rather, the head, into Christ,
Ephesians 4:16  when each part is working properly, makes the body grow so that it builds itself up in love.
Ephesians 4:17 Now this I say and in the futility of their minds.
Ephesians 4:18 They their hardness of heart.
Ephesians 4:19 They have given themselves up to sensuality, greedy to practice every kind of impurity.
Ephesians 4:20 But that is not the way you learned Christ! —
Ephesians 4:21 assuming that were taught in him, as the truth is in Jesus,
Ephesians 4:22 to deceitful desires,
Ephesians 4:23 and to be renewed in the spirit of your minds,
Ephesians 4:24 and to put on created after the likeness of God in true righteousness and holiness.
Ephesians 4:25 Therefore, having put away falsehood, let each one of you we are members one of another.
Ephesians 4:26  Be angry and do not sin; do not let the sun go down on your anger,
Ephesians 4:27 and give no opportunity to the devil.
Ephesians 4:28 Let the thief no longer steal, but rather that he may have something to share with anyone in need.
Ephesians 4:29  grace to those who hear.
Ephesians 4:30 And redemption.
Ephesians 4:31  Let all bitterness and wrath and anger and clamor and slander be put away from you, along with all malice.
Ephesians 4:32  forgiving one another, as God in Christ forgave you.
Ephesians 5:1  Therefore be imitators of God, as beloved children.
Ephesians 5:2 And offering and sacrifice to God.
Ephesians 5:3 But must not even be named among you, as is proper among saints.
Ephesians 5:4 Let there be let there be thanksgiving.
Ephesians 5:5 For you may be sure of this, thatthat is, an idolater), has no inheritance in the kingdom of Christ and God.
Ephesians 5:6  the sons of disobedience.
Ephesians 5:7 Therefore do not become partners with them;
Ephesians 5:8 for Walk as children of light
Ephesians 5:9 (for the fruit of light is found in all that is good and right and true),
Ephesians 5:10 and try to discern what is pleasing to the Lord.
Ephesians 5:11  expose them.
Ephesians 5:12 For it is shameful even to speak of the things that they do in secret.
Ephesians 5:13 But when anything is exposed by the light, it becomes visible,
Ephesians 5:14 for anything that becomes visible is light. Therefore it says,  Christ will shine on you.”
Ephesians 5:15  Look carefully then how you walk, not as unwise but as wise,
Ephesians 5:16  the days are evil.
Ephesians 5:17 Therefore do not be foolish, but understand what the will of the Lord is.
Ephesians 5:18 And be filled with the Spirit,
Ephesians 5:19 addressing one another in psalms and hymns and spiritual songs, singing and making melody to the Lord with your heart,
Ephesians 5:20  in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ,
Ephesians 5:21  submitting to one another out of reverence for Christ.
Ephesians 5:22  as to the Lord.
Ephesians 5:23 For himself its Savior.
Ephesians 5:24 Now as the church submits to Christ, so also wives should submit in everything to their husbands.
Ephesians 5:25  gave himself up for her,
Ephesians 5:26 that he might sanctify her, having cleansed her by with the word,
Ephesians 5:27 so
Ephesians 5:28 In the same way husbands should love their wives as their own bodies. He who loves his wife loves himself.
Ephesians 5:29 For no one ever hated his own flesh, but nourishes and cherishes it, just as Christ does the church,
Ephesians 5:30 because we are members of his body.
Ephesians 5:31  the two shall become one flesh.”
Ephesians 5:32 This mystery is profound, and I am saying that it refers to Christ and the church.
Ephesians 5:33 However, respects her husband.
Ephesians 6:1  Children, obey your parents in the Lord, for this is right.
Ephesians 6:2  “Honor your father and mother” (this is the first commandment with a promise),
Ephesians 6:3 “that it may go well with you and that you may live long in the land.”
Ephesians 6:4 Fathers, do not provoke your children to anger, but bring them up in the discipline and instruction of the Lord.
Ephesians 6:5  as you would Christ,
Ephesians 6:6 not by the way of eye-service, as people-pleasers, but as bondservants of Christ, doing the will of God from the heart,
Ephesians 6:7 rendering service with a good will as to the Lord and not to man,
Ephesians 6:8  whether he is a bondservant or is free.
Ephesians 6:9 Masters, do the same to them, there is no partiality with him.
Ephesians 6:10 Finally, the strength of his might.
Ephesians 6:11  the schemes of the devil.
Ephesians 6:12 For in the heavenly places.
Ephesians 6:13 Therefore the evil day, and having done all, to stand firm.
Ephesians 6:14 Stand therefore, having put on the breastplate of righteousness,
Ephesians 6:15 and, as shoes for your feet, having put on the readiness given by the gospel of peace.
Ephesians 6:16 In all circumstances take up the evil one;
Ephesians 6:17 and take the sword of the Spirit, which is the word of God,
Ephesians 6:18 praying supplication for all the saints,
Ephesians 6:19 and the mystery of the gospel,
Ephesians 6:20 for which I in chains, that I may declare it boldly, as I ought to speak.
Ephesians 6:21  Tychicus the beloved brother and faithful minister in the Lord will tell you everything.
Ephesians 6:22 I have sent him to you for this very purpose, that you may know how we are, and that he may encourage your hearts.
Ephesians 6:23  love with faith, from God the Father and the Lord Jesus Christ.
Ephesians 6:24 Grace be with all who love our Lord Jesus Christ with love incorruptible.
Philippians 1:1 Paul and Timothy, servants
Philippians 1:2  Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ.
Philippians 1:3  in all my remembrance of you,
Philippians 1:4 always in every prayer of mine for you all making my prayer with joy,
Philippians 1:5  because of your partnership in the gospel from the first day until now.
Philippians 1:6 And I am sure of this, that he who began the day of Jesus Christ.
Philippians 1:7 It is right for me to feel this way about you all, because I hold you the defense and confirmation of the gospel.
Philippians 1:8 For how I yearn for you all with the affection of Christ Jesus.
Philippians 1:9 And it is my prayer that with knowledge and all discernment,
Philippians 1:10 so that you may approve what is excellent, for the day of Christ,
Philippians 1:11 filled to the glory and praise of God.
Philippians 1:12 I want you to know, brothers, served to advance the gospel,
Philippians 1:13 so that it has become known throughout the whole imperial guard my imprisonment is for Christ.
Philippians 1:14 And most of the brothers, having become confident in the Lord by my imprisonment, are much more bold  without fear.
Philippians 1:15  Some indeed preach Christ from envy and rivalry, but others from good will.
Philippians 1:16 The latter do it out of love, the defense of the gospel.
Philippians 1:17 The former proclaim Christ out of selfish ambition, not sincerely but thinking to afflict me in my imprisonment.
Philippians 1:18 What then? Only that in every way, whether in pretense or in truth, Christ is proclaimed, and in that I rejoice. To Live Is Christ  Yes, and I will rejoice,
Philippians 1:19 for I know that the Spirit of Jesus Christ this will turn out for my deliverance,
Philippians 1:20 as it is my eager expectation and hope whether by life or by death.
Philippians 1:21 For to me to live is Christ, and to die is gain.
Philippians 1:22 If I am to live in the flesh, that means fruitful labor for me. Yet which I shall choose I cannot tell.
Philippians 1:23  be with Christ, for that is far better.
Philippians 1:24 But to remain in the flesh is more necessary on your account.
Philippians 1:25  joy in the faith,
Philippians 1:26 so that in me you may have ample cause to glory in Christ Jesus, because of my coming to you again.
Philippians 1:27 Only striving side by side for the faith of the gospel,
Philippians 1:28 and not frightened in anything by your opponents. This is of your salvation, and that from God.
Philippians 1:29 For suffer for his sake,
Philippians 1:30 engaged in the same you saw I had and now hear that I still have.
Philippians 2:1 So if there is any encouragement in Christ, any comfort from affection and sympathy,
Philippians 2:2  of the same mind, having the same love, being in full accord and of one mind.
Philippians 2:3 Do nothing from humility count others more significant than yourselves.
Philippians 2:4 Let each of you look not only to his own interests, but also to the interests of others.
Philippians 2:5
Philippians 2:6
Philippians 2:7 but being born in the likeness of men.
Philippians 2:8 And being found in human form, he humbled himself by even death on a cross.
Philippians 2:9  the name that is above every name,
Philippians 2:10 so that at the name of Jesus in heaven and on earth and under the earth,
Philippians 2:11 and Lord, to the glory of God the Father.
Philippians 2:12 Therefore, my beloved, obeyed, so now, not only as in my presence but much more in my absence, work out your own salvation with fear and trembling,
Philippians 2:13 for his good pleasure.
Philippians 2:14 Do all things disputing,
Philippians 2:15 that you may be blameless and innocent, as lights in the world,
Philippians 2:16 holding fast to I did not run in vain or labor in vain.
Philippians 2:17 Even if I am to be the sacrificial offering of your faith, I am glad and rejoice with you all.
Philippians 2:18 Likewise you also should be glad and rejoice with me.
Philippians 2:19 I hope in the Lord Jesus to send Timothy to you soon, so that I too may be cheered by news of you.
Philippians 2:20 For I have no one like him, who will be genuinely concerned for your welfare.
Philippians 2:21 For they all seek their own interests, not those of Jesus Christ.
Philippians 2:22 But you know Timothy's he has served with me in the gospel.
Philippians 2:23 I hope therefore to send him just as soon as I see how it will go with me,
Philippians 2:24 and I trust in the Lord that shortly I myself will come also.
Philippians 2:25 I have thought it necessary to send to you minister to my need,
Philippians 2:26 for he has been longing for you all and has been distressed because you heard that he was ill.
Philippians 2:27 Indeed he was ill, near to death. But God had mercy on him, and not only on him but on me also, lest I should have sorrow upon sorrow.
Philippians 2:28 I am the more eager to send him, therefore, that you may rejoice at seeing him again, and that I may be less anxious.
Philippians 2:29 So honor such men,
Philippians 2:30 for he nearly died to complete what was lacking in your service to me.
Philippians 3:1 Finally, my brothers, To write the same things to you is no trouble to me and is safe for you.
Philippians 3:2 Look out for the evildoers, look out for those who mutilate the flesh.
Philippians 3:3 For glory in Christ Jesus and put no confidence in the flesh —
Philippians 3:4  though I myself have reason for confidence in the flesh also. If anyone else thinks he has reason for confidence in the flesh, I have more:
Philippians 3:5  a Pharisee;
Philippians 3:6   blameless.
Philippians 3:7 But I counted as loss for the sake of Christ.
Philippians 3:8 Indeed, I count everything as loss because of have suffered the loss of all things and count them as rubbish, in order that I may gain Christ
Philippians 3:9 and be found in him, not having that which comes through faith in Christ, the righteousness from God that depends on faith —
Philippians 3:10  may share his sufferings, becoming like him in his death,
Philippians 3:11 that by any means possible I may attain the resurrection from the dead.
Philippians 3:12 Not that I have already am already perfect, but I press on to make it my own, because Christ Jesus has made me his own.
Philippians 3:13 Brothers, I do not consider that I have made it my own. But one thing I do: forgetting what lies behind and straining forward to what lies ahead,
Philippians 3:14 I press on toward the goal for call of God in Christ Jesus.
Philippians 3:15 Let those of us who are God will reveal that also to you.
Philippians 3:16 Only let us hold true to what we have attained.
Philippians 3:17 Brothers, according to the example you have in us.
Philippians 3:18 For even with tears, walk as enemies of the cross of Christ.
Philippians 3:19  minds set on earthly things.
Philippians 3:20 But await a Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ,
Philippians 3:21 who will transform to subject all things to himself.
Philippians 4:1 Therefore, my brothers, stand firm thus in the Lord, my beloved.
Philippians 4:2 I entreat Euodia and I entreat Syntyche to agree in the Lord.
Philippians 4:3 Yes, I ask you also, true companion, whose names are in the book of life.
Philippians 4:4  Rejoice in the Lord always; again I will say, rejoice.
Philippians 4:5 Let your reasonableness The Lord is at hand;
Philippians 4:6  with thanksgiving let your requests be made known to God.
Philippians 4:7 And which surpasses all understanding, will guard your hearts and your minds in Christ Jesus.
Philippians 4:8 Finally, brothers, whatever is true, whatever is honorable, whatever is just, whatever is pure, whatever is lovely, whatever is commendable, if there is any excellence, if there is anything worthy of praise, think about these things.
Philippians 4:9 What you have learned the God of peace will be with you.
Philippians 4:10 I rejoiced in the Lord greatly that now at length you have revived your concern for me. You were indeed concerned for me, but you had no opportunity.
Philippians 4:11 Not that I am speaking of being in need, for I have learned in whatever situation I am to be content.
Philippians 4:12 I know how to be brought low, and I know how to abound. In any and every circumstance, I have learned the secret of facing plenty and need.
Philippians 4:13 I can do all things through him who strengthens me.
Philippians 4:14 Yet it was kind of you  my trouble.
Philippians 4:15 And you Philippians yourselves know that no church entered into partnership with me in giving and receiving, except you only.
Philippians 4:16 Even in Thessalonica you sent me help for my needs once and again.
Philippians 4:17
Philippians 4:18 I have received full payment, and more. I am well supplied, a sacrifice acceptable and pleasing to God.
Philippians 4:19 And my God according to his riches in glory in Christ Jesus.
Philippians 4:20 To glory forever and ever. Amen.
Philippians 4:21 Greet every saint in Christ Jesus. The brothers who are with me greet you.
Philippians 4:22  All the saints greet you, especially those of Caesar's household.
Philippians 4:23  The grace of the Lord Jesus Christ be with your spirit.
Colossians 1:1 Paul, our brother,
Colossians 1:2 To theGrace to you and peace from God our Father.
Colossians 1:3  We always thank God, the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, when we pray for you,
Colossians 1:4 since we heard of the love that you have for all the saints,
Colossians 1:5 because of the word of the truth, the gospel,
Colossians 1:6 which has come to you, as indeed the grace of God in truth,
Colossians 1:7 just as you learned it from  behalf
Colossians 1:8 and has made known to us your love in the Spirit.
Colossians 1:9 And so, spiritual wisdom and understanding,
Colossians 1:10 so as bearing fruit in every good work and increasing in the knowledge of God;
Colossians 1:11  with joy;
Colossians 1:12  the inheritance of the saints in light.
Colossians 1:13 He his beloved Son,
Colossians 1:14  in whom we have redemption, the forgiveness of sins.
Colossians 1:15  the firstborn of all creation.
Colossians 1:16 For by through him and for him.
Colossians 1:17 And hold together.
Colossians 1:18 And the firstborn from the dead, that in everything he might be preeminent.
Colossians 1:19 For fullness of God was pleased to dwell,
Colossians 1:20 and by the blood of his cross.
Colossians 1:21  doing evil deeds,
Colossians 1:22 he has now reconciled above reproach before him,
Colossians 1:23  and of which I, Paul, became a minister.
Colossians 1:24 Now for the sake of his body, that is, the church,
Colossians 1:25  the stewardship from God that was given to me for you, to make the word of God fully known,
Colossians 1:26  the mystery hidden for ages and generations but now revealed to his saints.
Colossians 1:27  the hope of glory.
Colossians 1:28 Him we proclaim, warning everyone and teaching everyone with all wisdom, that mature in Christ.
Colossians 1:29 For this with all his energy that he powerfully works within me.
Colossians 2:1 For I want you to know struggle I have for you and for those at Laodicea and for all who have not seen me face to face,
Colossians 2:2 that God's mystery, which is Christ,
Colossians 2:3  in whom are hidden all the treasures of wisdom and knowledge.
Colossians 2:4 I say this in order that no one may delude you with plausible arguments.
Colossians 2:5 For the firmness of your faith in Christ.
Colossians 2:6  Therefore, as you received Christ Jesus the Lord, so walk in him,
Colossians 2:7  in thanksgiving.
Colossians 2:8 See to it that no one takes you captive by  of the world, and not according to Christ.
Colossians 2:9 For bodily,
Colossians 2:10 and the head of all rule and authority.
Colossians 2:11 In him also putting off the body of the flesh, by the circumcision of Christ,
Colossians 2:12  who raised him from the dead.
Colossians 2:13  made alive together with him, having forgiven us all our trespasses,
Colossians 2:14 by the record of debt that stood against us with its legal demands. This he set aside, nailing it to the cross.
Colossians 2:15
Colossians 2:16 Therefore let no one a new moon or a Sabbath.
Colossians 2:17  the substance belongs to Christ.
Colossians 2:18 Let no one his sensuous mind,
Colossians 2:19 and holding fast to the Head, from whom the whole body, nourished and knit together through its joints and ligaments, grows with a growth that is from God.
Colossians 2:20 If with Christ why, as if you were still alive in the world, do you submit to regulations —
Colossians 2:21  “Do not handle, Do not taste, Do not touch”
Colossians 2:22 ( human precepts and teachings?
Colossians 2:23 These have indeed an appearance of wisdom in of no value in stopping the indulgence of the flesh.
Colossians 3:1  seated at the right hand of God.
Colossians 3:2  Set your minds on things that are above, not on things that are on earth.
Colossians 3:3 For you have died, and your life is hidden with Christ in God.
Colossians 3:4 When Christ in glory.
Colossians 3:5  which is idolatry.
Colossians 3:6
Colossians 3:7  In these you too once walked, when you were living in them.
Colossians 3:8 But now slander, and obscene talk from your mouth.
Colossians 3:9   with its practices
Colossians 3:10 and its creator.
Colossians 3:11  all, and in all.
Colossians 3:12  humility, meekness, and patience,
Colossians 3:13  as the Lord has forgiven you, so you also must forgive.
Colossians 3:14 And above all these put on perfect harmony.
Colossians 3:15 And let be thankful.
Colossians 3:16 Let with thankfulness in your hearts to God.
Colossians 3:17 And giving thanks to God the Father through him.
Colossians 3:18  is fitting in the Lord.
Colossians 3:19 Husbands, love your wives, and do not be harsh with them.
Colossians 3:20 Children, obey your parents in everything, for this pleases the Lord.
Colossians 3:21 Fathers, do not provoke your children, lest they become discouraged.
Colossians 3:22 Bondservants, obey  not by way of eye-service, as people-pleasers, but with sincerity of heart, fearing the Lord.
Colossians 3:23  as for the Lord and not for men,
Colossians 3:24 knowing that from the Lord You are serving the Lord Christ.
Colossians 3:25 For the wrongdoer will be paid back for the wrong he has done, and there is no partiality.
Colossians 4:1 Masters, treat your bondservants  justly and fairly, knowing that you also have a Master in heaven.
Colossians 4:2  with thanksgiving.
Colossians 4:3 At the same time, pray also for us, that God may on account of which I am in prison —
Colossians 4:4 that I may make it clear, which is how I ought to speak.
Colossians 4:5  outsiders, making the best use of the time.
Colossians 4:6 Let your speech always so that you may know how you ought to answer each person.
Colossians 4:7 Tychicus will tell you  in the Lord.
Colossians 4:8 I have sent him to you for this very purpose, that you may know how we are and that he may encourage your hearts,
Colossians 4:9 and with him beloved brother, who is one of you. They will tell you of everything that has taken place here.
Colossians 4:10  if he comes to you, welcome him),
Colossians 4:11 and Jesus who is called they have been a comfort to me.
Colossians 4:12  mature and fully assured in all the will of God.
Colossians 4:13 For I bear him witness that he has worked hard for you and for those in Laodicea and in Hierapolis.
Colossians 4:14  Demas.
Colossians 4:15 Give my greetings to the brothers the church in her house.
Colossians 4:16 And when this letter has been read among you, have it also read in the church of the Laodiceans; and see that you also read the letter from Laodicea.
Colossians 4:17 And say to the ministry that you have received in the Lord.”
Colossians 4:18 I, Paul, Grace be with you.
1 Thessalonians 1:1 Paul,Grace to you and peace.
1 Thessalonians 1:2  mentioning you in our prayers,
1 Thessalonians 1:3 remembering before steadfastness of hope in our Lord Jesus Christ.
1 Thessalonians 1:4 For we know, that he has chosen you,
1 Thessalonians 1:5 because what kind of men we proved to be among you for your sake.
1 Thessalonians 1:6 And joy of the Holy Spirit,
1 Thessalonians 1:7 so that you became an example to all the believers in Macedonia and in Achaia.
1 Thessalonians 1:8 For not only has the word of the Lord everywhere, so that we need not say anything.
1 Thessalonians 1:9 For they themselves report concerning us the kind of true God,
1 Thessalonians 1:10 and the wrath to come.
1 Thessalonians 2:1 For you yourselves know, brothers, was not in vain.
1 Thessalonians 2:2 But though we had already suffered and been shamefully treated conflict.
1 Thessalonians 2:3 For any attempt to deceive,
1 Thessalonians 2:4 but just as we have been approved by God who tests our hearts.
1 Thessalonians 2:5  God is witness.
1 Thessalonians 2:6  apostles of Christ.
1 Thessalonians 2:7 But we were like a nursing mother taking care of her own children.
1 Thessalonians 2:8 So, being affectionately desirous of you, we were ready to share with you not only the gospel of God but also our own selves, because you had become very dear to us.
1 Thessalonians 2:9 For you remember, brothers, worked night and day, that we might not be a burden to any of you, while we proclaimed to you the gospel of God.
1 Thessalonians 2:10 You are witnesses, and how holy and righteous and blameless was our conduct toward you believers.
1 Thessalonians 2:11 For you know how, like a father with his children,
1 Thessalonians 2:12 we exhorted each one of you and encouraged you and who calls you into his own kingdom and glory.
1 Thessalonians 2:13 And which is at work in you believers.
1 Thessalonians 2:14 For you, brothers,
1 Thessalonians 2:15  oppose all mankind
1 Thessalonians 2:16
1 Thessalonians 2:17 But since we were torn away from you, brothers, for a short time, to see you face to face,
1 Thessalonians 2:18 because we wanted to come to you — I, Paul, again and again — but Satan hindered us.
1 Thessalonians 2:19 For what is our hope or coming? Is it not you?
1 Thessalonians 2:20 For you are our glory and joy.
1 Thessalonians 3:1 Therefore when we could bear it no longer, we were willing to be left behind at Athens alone,
1 Thessalonians 3:2 and we  in the gospel of Christ, to establish and exhort you in your faith,
1 Thessalonians 3:3 that no one be moved by these afflictions. For you yourselves know that we are destined for this.
1 Thessalonians 3:4 For when we were with you, we kept telling you beforehand that we were to suffer affliction, just as it has come to pass, and just as you know.
1 Thessalonians 3:5 For this reason, our labor would be in vain.
1 Thessalonians 3:6 But long to see us, as we long to see you —
1 Thessalonians 3:7 for this reason, brothers, we have been comforted about you through your faith.
1 Thessalonians 3:8 For now we live, if you are standing fast in the Lord.
1 Thessalonians 3:9 For what thanksgiving can we return to God for you, for all the joy that we feel for your sake before our God,
1 Thessalonians 3:10 as we pray most earnestly supply what is lacking in your faith?
1 Thessalonians 3:11 Now may direct our way to you,
1 Thessalonians 3:12 and may the Lord for one another and for all, as we do for you,
1 Thessalonians 3:13 so that he may with all his saints.
1 Thessalonians 4:1 Finally, then, brothers, do so more and more.
1 Thessalonians 4:2 For you know what instructions we gave you through the Lord Jesus.
1 Thessalonians 4:3 For this is the will of God, that you abstain from sexual immorality;
1 Thessalonians 4:4 that each one of you know how to control his own honor,
1 Thessalonians 4:5 not in who do not know God;
1 Thessalonians 4:6 that no one transgress and an avenger in all these things, as we told you beforehand and solemnly warned you.
1 Thessalonians 4:7 For impurity, but in holiness.
1 Thessalonians 4:8 Therefore who gives his Holy Spirit to you.
1 Thessalonians 4:9 Now concerning to love one another,
1 Thessalonians 4:10 for that indeed is what do this more and more,
1 Thessalonians 4:11 and to aspire to work with your hands, as we instructed you,
1 Thessalonians 4:12 so that you may outsiders and be dependent on no one.
1 Thessalonians 4:13 But we do not want you to be uninformed, brothers, about those who are asleep, who have no hope.
1 Thessalonians 4:14 For those who have fallen asleep.
1 Thessalonians 4:15 For this we declare to you the coming of the Lord, will not precede those who have fallen asleep.
1 Thessalonians 4:16 For the dead in Christ will rise first.
1 Thessalonians 4:17 Then we who are alive, who are left, will be we will always be with the Lord.
1 Thessalonians 4:18 Therefore encourage one another with these words.
1 Thessalonians 5:1 Now concerning you have no need to have anything written to you.
1 Thessalonians 5:2 For you yourselves are fully aware that the day of the Lord will come like a thief in the night.
1 Thessalonians 5:3 While people are saying, “There is peace and security,” then as labor pains come upon a pregnant woman, and they will not escape.
1 Thessalonians 5:4 But you are not in darkness, brothers, for that day to surprise you like a thief.
1 Thessalonians 5:5 For you are all  of light, children of the day. We are not of the night or of the darkness.
1 Thessalonians 5:6 So then be sober.
1 Thessalonians 5:7 For those who sleep, sleep at night, and those who get drunk, are drunk at night.
1 Thessalonians 5:8 But since we belong to the day, let us be sober, faith and love, and for a helmet the hope of salvation.
1 Thessalonians 5:9 For God has not destined us for to obtain salvation through our Lord Jesus Christ,
1 Thessalonians 5:10  who died for us so that whether we are awake or asleep we might live with him.
1 Thessalonians 5:11 Therefore encourage one another and build one another up, just as you are doing.
1 Thessalonians 5:12 We ask you, brothers, are over you in the Lord and admonish you,
1 Thessalonians 5:13 and to esteem them very highly in love because of their work. Be at peace among yourselves.
1 Thessalonians 5:14 And we urge you, brothers, admonish be patient with them all.
1 Thessalonians 5:15 See that seek to do good to one another and to everyone.
1 Thessalonians 5:16  Rejoice always,
1 Thessalonians 5:17  pray without ceasing,
1 Thessalonians 5:18  give thanks in all circumstances; for this is the will of God in Christ Jesus for you.
1 Thessalonians 5:19  Do not quench the Spirit.
1 Thessalonians 5:20 Do not despise prophecies,
1 Thessalonians 5:21 but test everything; hold fast what is good.
1 Thessalonians 5:22 Abstain from every form of evil.
1 Thessalonians 5:23 Now may the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ.
1 Thessalonians 5:24  he will surely do it.
1 Thessalonians 5:25  Brothers, pray for us.
1 Thessalonians 5:26  Greet all the brothers with a holy kiss.
1 Thessalonians 5:27 I put you under oath before the Lord to have this letter read to all the brothers.
1 Thessalonians 5:28  The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you.
2 Thessalonians 1:1  Paul, Silvanus, and Timothy, To the church of the Thessalonians in God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ:
2 Thessalonians 1:2 Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ.
2 Thessalonians 1:3   as is right, because your faith is growing abundantly, and the love of every one of you for one another is increasing.
2 Thessalonians 1:4 Therefore in all your persecutions and in the afflictions that you are enduring.
2 Thessalonians 1:5 This is considered worthy of the kingdom of God, for which you are also suffering —
2 Thessalonians 1:6 since indeed God considers it to repay with affliction those who afflict you,
2 Thessalonians 1:7 and to grant with his mighty angels
2 Thessalonians 1:8  do not obey the gospel of our Lord Jesus.
2 Thessalonians 1:9 They will suffer the punishment of  the presence of the Lord and from the glory of his might,
2 Thessalonians 1:10  was believed.
2 Thessalonians 1:11 To this end we work of faith by his power,
2 Thessalonians 1:12 so that the name of our Lord Jesus may be glorified in you, and you in him, according to the grace of our God and the Lord Jesus Christ.
2 Thessalonians 2:1 Now concerning
2 Thessalonians 2:2 not to be quickly shaken in mind or the day of the Lord has come.
2 Thessalonians 2:3
2 Thessalonians 2:4 who opposes and exalts himself against every so-called god or object of worship, so that he takes his seat in the temple of God, proclaiming himself to be God.
2 Thessalonians 2:5 Do you not remember that when I was still with you I told you these things?
2 Thessalonians 2:6 And you know what is restraining him now so that he may be revealed in his time.
2 Thessalonians 2:7 For is already at work. Only he who now restrains it will do so until he is out of the way.
2 Thessalonians 2:8 And then the appearance of his coming.
2 Thessalonians 2:9 The coming of the lawless one is by the activity of Satan with all power and false signs and wonders,
2 Thessalonians 2:10 and with all wicked deception for those who are perishing, because they refused to love the truth and so be saved.
2 Thessalonians 2:11 Therefore what is false,
2 Thessalonians 2:12 in order that all may be condemned had pleasure in unrighteousness.
2 Thessalonians 2:13 But through sanctification by the Spirit and belief in the truth.
2 Thessalonians 2:14 To this he called you through so that you may obtain the glory of our Lord Jesus Christ.
2 Thessalonians 2:15 So then, brothers, our letter.
2 Thessalonians 2:16 Now may our Lord Jesus Christ himself, and God our Father, hope through grace,
2 Thessalonians 2:17 comfort your hearts and establish them in every good work and word.
2 Thessalonians 3:1 Finally, brothers,  as happened among you,
2 Thessalonians 3:2 and not all have faith.
2 Thessalonians 3:3 But
2 Thessalonians 3:4 And we have confidence in the Lord about you, that you are doing and will do the things that we command.
2 Thessalonians 3:5 May the Lord direct your hearts to the love of God and to the steadfastness of Christ.
2 Thessalonians 3:6 Now we command you, brothers, who is walking in idleness and not in accord with the tradition that you received from us.
2 Thessalonians 3:7 For you yourselves know we were not idle when we were with you,
2 Thessalonians 3:8 nor did we eat anyone's bread without paying for it, but with toil and labor we worked night and day, that we might not be a burden to any of you.
2 Thessalonians 3:9 It was an example to imitate.
2 Thessalonians 3:10 For even when we were with you, we would give you this command: If anyone is not willing to work, let him not eat.
2 Thessalonians 3:11 For we hear that some among you busybodies.
2 Thessalonians 3:12 Now such persons we command and encourage in the Lord Jesus Christ to do their work quietly and to earn their own living.
2 Thessalonians 3:13 As for you, brothers, do not grow weary in doing good.
2 Thessalonians 3:14 If anyone does not obey what we say in this letter, take note of that person, and have nothing to do with him, that he may be ashamed.
2 Thessalonians 3:15  warn him as a brother.
2 Thessalonians 3:16 Now may The Lord be with you all.
2 Thessalonians 3:17 I, Paul, write this greeting with my own hand. This is the sign of genuineness in every letter of mine; it is the way I write.
2 Thessalonians 3:18  The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you all.
1 Timothy 1:1 Paul, our hope,
1 Timothy 1:2 To Timothy,Grace, mercy, and peace from God the Father and Christ Jesus our Lord.
1 Timothy 1:3  to teach any different doctrine,
1 Timothy 1:4 nor  from God that is by faith.
1 Timothy 1:5 The aim of our charge is love a sincere faith.
1 Timothy 1:6 Certain persons, by vain discussion,
1 Timothy 1:7 desiring to be teachers of the law, without understanding either what they are saying or the things about which they make confident assertions.
1 Timothy 1:8 Now we know that the law is good, if one uses it lawfully,
1 Timothy 1:9 understanding this, that the law is not laid down for the just but for the lawless and disobedient, for the ungodly and sinners, for the unholy and profane, for those who strike their fathers and mothers, for murderers,
1 Timothy 1:10 the sexually immoral, men who practice homosexuality, enslavers,  doctrine,
1 Timothy 1:11 in accordance with with which I have been entrusted.
1 Timothy 1:12 I thank him appointing me to his service,
1 Timothy 1:13 though formerly I was a blasphemer, because I had acted ignorantly in unbelief,
1 Timothy 1:14 and faith and love that are in Christ Jesus.
1 Timothy 1:15 The saying is of whom I am the foremost.
1 Timothy 1:16 But I received mercy for this reason, that in me, as the foremost, Jesus Christ might display his perfect patience as an example to those who were to believe in him for eternal life.
1 Timothy 1:17 To  Amen.
1 Timothy 1:18 This charge wage the good warfare,
1 Timothy 1:19  made shipwreck of their faith,
1 Timothy 1:20 among whom are blaspheme.
1 Timothy 2:1 First of all, then, I urge that supplications, prayers, intercessions, and thanksgivings be made for all people,
1 Timothy 2:2  dignified in every way.
1 Timothy 2:3 This is good, and God our Savior,
1 Timothy 2:4 who desires the knowledge of the truth.
1 Timothy 2:5 For  Christ Jesus,
1 Timothy 2:6  at the proper time.
1 Timothy 2:7  a teacher of the Gentiles in faith and truth.
1 Timothy 2:8 I desire then that holy hands without anger or quarreling;
1 Timothy 2:9 likewise also that women should adorn themselves in respectable apparel, with modesty and self-control, not with braided hair and gold or pearls or costly attire,
1 Timothy 2:10  but with what is proper for women who profess godliness — with good works.
1 Timothy 2:11 Let a woman learn quietly with all submissiveness.
1 Timothy 2:12  I do not permit a woman to teach or to exercise authority over a man; rather, she is to remain quiet.
1 Timothy 2:13  then Eve;
1 Timothy 2:14 and Adam was not deceived, but the woman was deceived and became a transgressor.
1 Timothy 2:15 Yet she will be saved through faith and love and holiness, with self-control.
1 Timothy 3:1 The saying is the office of overseer, he desires a noble task.
1 Timothy 3:2 Therefore able to teach,
1 Timothy 3:3 not a drunkard, not violent but not a lover of money.
1 Timothy 3:4 He must manage his own household well, with all dignity keeping his children submissive,
1 Timothy 3:5 for if someone does not know how to manage his own household, how will he care for God's church?
1 Timothy 3:6 He must not be a recent convert, or he may become puffed up with conceit and fall into the condemnation of the devil.
1 Timothy 3:7 Moreover, he must be well thought of by a snare of the devil.
1 Timothy 3:8  not greedy for dishonest gain.
1 Timothy 3:9 They must a clear conscience.
1 Timothy 3:10 And let them also be tested first; then let them serve as deacons if they prove themselves blameless.
1 Timothy 3:11  faithful in all things.
1 Timothy 3:12 Let deacons each be managing their children and their own households well.
1 Timothy 3:13 For those who serve well as deacons gain a good standing for themselves and also great confidence in the faith that is in Christ Jesus.
1 Timothy 3:14 I hope to come to you soon, but I am writing these things to you so that,
1 Timothy 3:15 if I delay, you may know how one ought to behave in the household of God, which is the church of the living God, a pillar and buttress of the truth.
1 Timothy 3:16 Great indeed, we confess, is the mystery of godliness: taken up in glory.
1 Timothy 4:1 Now deceitful spirits and teachings of demons,
1 Timothy 4:2 through the insincerity of liars whose consciences are seared,
1 Timothy 4:3  to be received with thanksgiving by those who believe and know the truth.
1 Timothy 4:4 For received with thanksgiving,
1 Timothy 4:5 for it is made holy by the word of God and prayer.
1 Timothy 4:6  followed.
1 Timothy 4:7 Have nothing to do with irreverent, train yourself for godliness;
1 Timothy 4:8 for while it holds promise for the present life and also for the life to come.
1 Timothy 4:9 The saying is trustworthy and deserving of full acceptance.
1 Timothy 4:10 For to this end we toil and strive, who is the Savior of all people, especially of those who believe.
1 Timothy 4:11 Command and teach these things.
1 Timothy 4:12  an example in speech, in conduct, in love, in faith, in purity.
1 Timothy 4:13 Until I come, devote yourself to the public reading of Scripture, to exhortation, to teaching.
1 Timothy 4:14  laid their hands on you.
1 Timothy 4:15 Practice these things, immerse yourself in them, all may see your progress.
1 Timothy 4:16  your hearers.
1 Timothy 5:1  younger men as brothers,
1 Timothy 5:2 older women as mothers, younger women as sisters, in all purity.
1 Timothy 5:3 Honor widows who are truly widows.
1 Timothy 5:4 But if a widow has children or grandchildren, let them first learn this is pleasing in the sight of God.
1 Timothy 5:5 She continues in supplications and prayers night and day,
1 Timothy 5:6 but dead even while she lives.
1 Timothy 5:7  Command these things as well, so that they may be without reproach.
1 Timothy 5:8 But if anyone does not provide for his relatives, and especially for denied the faith and is worse than an unbeliever.
1 Timothy 5:9 Let a widow be enrolled if she is not less than sixty years of age, having been
1 Timothy 5:10 and having a reputation for good works: if she has brought up children, has devoted herself to every good work.
1 Timothy 5:11 But refuse to enroll younger widows, for when their passions draw them away from Christ, they desire to marry
1 Timothy 5:12 and so incur condemnation for having abandoned their former faith.
1 Timothy 5:13 Besides that, they learn to be idlers, going about from house to house, and not only idlers, but also busybodies, saying what they should not.
1 Timothy 5:14 So I would have give the adversary no occasion for slander.
1 Timothy 5:15  For some have already strayed after Satan.
1 Timothy 5:16 If any believing woman has relatives who are widows, let her care for them. Let the church not be burdened, so that it may care for those who are truly widows.
1 Timothy 5:17 Let the elders double honor, especially those who labor in preaching and teaching.
1 Timothy 5:18 For the Scripture says, “The laborer deserves his wages.”
1 Timothy 5:19 Do not admit a charge against an elder except on the evidence of two or three witnesses.
1 Timothy 5:20 As for those who persist in sin, so that the rest may stand in fear.
1 Timothy 5:21 In the presence of God and of Christ Jesus and of the elect angels doing nothing from partiality.
1 Timothy 5:22  take part in the sins of others; keep yourself pure.
1 Timothy 5:23 (No longer drink only water, but for the sake of your stomach and your frequent ailments.)
1 Timothy 5:24 The sins of some people are conspicuous, going before them to judgment, but the sins of others appear later.
1 Timothy 5:25 So also good works are conspicuous, and even those that are not cannot remain hidden.
1 Timothy 6:1  so that the name of God and the teaching may not be reviled.
1 Timothy 6:2 Those who have believing masters must not be disrespectful on the ground that they areTeach and urge these things.
1 Timothy 6:3 If anyone that accords with godliness,
1 Timothy 6:4  quarrels about words, which produce envy, dissension, slander, evil suspicions,
1 Timothy 6:5 and constant friction among people imagining that godliness is a means of gain.
1 Timothy 6:6 But with contentment is great gain,
1 Timothy 6:7 for  we cannot take anything out of the world.
1 Timothy 6:8 But if we have food and clothing, with these we will be content.
1 Timothy 6:9 But plunge people into ruin and destruction.
1 Timothy 6:10 For the love of money is a root of all kinds of evils. It is through this craving that some have wandered away from the faith and pierced themselves with many pangs.
1 Timothy 6:11 But as for you, Pursue righteousness, godliness, faith, love, steadfastness, gentleness.
1 Timothy 6:12  the good confession in the presence of many witnesses.
1 Timothy 6:13  the good confession,
1 Timothy 6:14 to keep the commandment unstained and free from reproach until the appearing of our Lord Jesus Christ,
1 Timothy 6:15 which he will display the King of kings and Lord of lords,
1 Timothy 6:16  whom no one has ever seen or can see. To him be honor and eternal dominion. Amen.
1 Timothy 6:17 As for the rich in who richly provides us with everything to enjoy.
1 Timothy 6:18 They are to do good, ready to share,
1 Timothy 6:19 thus that which is truly life.
1 Timothy 6:20 O Timothy, guard the deposit entrusted to you. irreverent babble and contradictions of what is falsely called “knowledge,”
1 Timothy 6:21 for by professing it some have swerved from the faith.
2 Timothy 1:1 Paul, the promise of the life that is in Christ Jesus,
2 Timothy 1:2 To Timothy,Grace, mercy, and peace from God the Father and Christ Jesus our Lord.
2 Timothy 1:3  constantly in my prayers night and day.
2 Timothy 1:4  I long to see you, that I may be filled with joy.
2 Timothy 1:5 I am reminded of your mother Eunice and now, I am sure, dwells in you as well.
2 Timothy 1:6 For this reason I remind you to fan into flame the gift of God, which is in you through the laying on of my hands,
2 Timothy 1:7 for God gave us of power and love and self-control.
2 Timothy 1:8 Therefore share in suffering for the gospel by the power of God,
2 Timothy 1:9
2 Timothy 1:10 and which now has immortality to light through the gospel,
2 Timothy 1:11  for which I was appointed a preacher and apostle and teacher,
2 Timothy 1:12
2 Timothy 1:13  the faith and love that are in Christ Jesus.
2 Timothy 1:14 By the Holy Spirit the good deposit entrusted to you.
2 Timothy 1:15 You are aware that all who are in Asia turned away from me, among whom are Phygelus and Hermogenes.
2 Timothy 1:16 May the Lord grant mercy to my chains,
2 Timothy 1:17 but when he arrived in Rome he searched for me earnestly and found me —
2 Timothy 1:18 may the Lord grant him to find mercy from the Lord on rendered at Ephesus.
2 Timothy 2:1 You then, be strengthened by the grace that is in Christ Jesus,
2 Timothy 2:2 and who will be able to teach others also.
2 Timothy 2:3  a good soldier of Christ Jesus.
2 Timothy 2:4 No soldier gets entangled in civilian pursuits, since his aim is to please the one who enlisted him.
2 Timothy 2:5  crowned unless he competes according to the rules.
2 Timothy 2:6 It is the hard-working farmer who ought to have the first share of the crops.
2 Timothy 2:7 Think over what I say, for the Lord will give you understanding in everything.
2 Timothy 2:8 Remember Jesus Christ, as preached in my gospel,
2 Timothy 2:9  the word of God is not bound!
2 Timothy 2:10 Therefore eternal glory.
2 Timothy 2:11 The saying is live with him;
2 Timothy 2:12 if we deny him, he also will deny us;
2 Timothy 2:13  he cannot deny himself.
2 Timothy 2:14 Remind them of these things, and which does no good, but only ruins the hearers.
2 Timothy 2:15 Do your best to present yourself to God as one approved, who has no need to be ashamed, rightly handling the word of truth.
2 Timothy 2:16 But irreverent babble, for it will lead people into more and more ungodliness,
2 Timothy 2:17 and their talk will spread like gangrene. Among them are Hymenaeus and Philetus,
2 Timothy 2:18 who have swerved from the truth, saying that the resurrection has already happened. They are upsetting the faith of some.
2 Timothy 2:19 But God's firm foundation stands, bearing this seal: who names the name of the Lord depart from iniquity.”
2 Timothy 2:20 Now in some for honorable use, some for dishonorable.
2 Timothy 2:21 Therefore, ready for every good work.
2 Timothy 2:22 So from a pure heart.
2 Timothy 2:23 Have nothing to do with foolish, ignorant controversies; you know that they breed quarrels.
2 Timothy 2:24 And able to teach, patiently enduring evil,
2 Timothy 2:25 correcting his opponents leading to a knowledge of the truth,
2 Timothy 2:26 and they may come to their senses and escape from the snare of the devil, after being captured by him to do his will.
2 Timothy 3:1 But understand this, that in the last days there will come times of difficulty.
2 Timothy 3:2 For people will be disobedient to their parents, ungrateful, unholy,
2 Timothy 3:3  not loving good,
2 Timothy 3:4 treacherous, reckless, lovers of pleasure rather than lovers of God,
2 Timothy 3:5 having the appearance of godliness, but Avoid such people.
2 Timothy 3:6 For among them are those who creep into households and capture weak women, burdened with sins and led astray by various passions,
2 Timothy 3:7 always learning and never able to arrive at a knowledge of the truth.
2 Timothy 3:8 Just as disqualified regarding the faith.
2 Timothy 3:9 But they will not get very far, for their folly will be plain to all, as was that of those two men.
2 Timothy 3:10  You, however, have followed my teaching, my conduct, my aim in life, my faith, my patience, my love, my steadfastness,
2 Timothy 3:11 my persecutions and sufferings that happened to me the Lord rescued me.
2 Timothy 3:12 Indeed, all who desire to will be persecuted,
2 Timothy 3:13 while being deceived.
2 Timothy 3:14 But as for you,  you learned it
2 Timothy 3:15 and how which are able to make you wise for salvation through faith in Christ Jesus.
2 Timothy 3:16  All Scripture is breathed out by God and profitable for teaching, for reproof, for correction, and for training in righteousness,
2 Timothy 3:17 that for every good work.
2 Timothy 4:1  his appearing and his kingdom:
2 Timothy 4:2 preach the word; be ready in season and out of season; exhort, with complete patience and teaching.
2 Timothy 4:3   teaching, but having itching ears they will accumulate for themselves teachers to suit their own passions,
2 Timothy 4:4 and wander off into myths.
2 Timothy 4:5 As for you, fulfill your ministry.
2 Timothy 4:6 For departure has come.
2 Timothy 4:7  I have finished the race, I have kept the faith.
2 Timothy 4:8 Henceforth there is who have loved his appearing.
2 Timothy 4:9  Do your best to come to me soon.
2 Timothy 4:10 For Titus to Dalmatia.
2 Timothy 4:11  Mark and bring him with you, for he is very useful to me for ministry.
2 Timothy 4:12  Tychicus I have sent to Ephesus.
2 Timothy 4:13 When you come, bring the cloak that I left with Carpus at Troas, also the books, and above all the parchments.
2 Timothy 4:14  the Lord will repay him according to his deeds.
2 Timothy 4:15 Beware of him yourself, for he strongly opposed our message.
2 Timothy 4:16 At my first defense no one came to stand by me, but all deserted me. May it not be charged against them!
2 Timothy 4:17 But from the lion's mouth.
2 Timothy 4:18 The Lord will rescue me from every evil deed and bring me safely into his heavenly kingdom. To him be the glory forever and ever. Amen.
2 Timothy 4:19 Greet the household of Onesiphorus.
2 Timothy 4:20 Erastus remained at Corinth, and I left Trophimus, who was ill, at Miletus.
2 Timothy 4:21
2 Timothy 4:22 The Lord be
Titus 1:1 Paul, a servant which accords with godliness,
Titus 1:2
Titus 1:3 and by the command of God our Savior;
Titus 1:4 To Titus,Grace and peace from God the Father and Christ Jesus our Savior.
Titus 1:5  appoint elders in every town as I directed you —
Titus 1:6  debauchery or insubordination.
Titus 1:7 For an overseer, or greedy for gain,
Titus 1:8 but hospitable, a lover of good, self-controlled, upright, holy, and disciplined.
Titus 1:9 He must  doctrine and also to rebuke those who contradict it.
Titus 1:10 For there are many who are insubordinate,
Titus 1:11 They must be silenced, since for shameful gain what they ought not to teach.
Titus 1:12
Titus 1:13 This testimony is true. Therefore may be sound in the faith,
Titus 1:14  who turn away from the truth.
Titus 1:15  their minds and their consciences are defiled.
Titus 1:16  unfit for any good work.
Titus 2:1 But as for you, teach what accords with  doctrine.
Titus 2:2 Older men are to be sober-minded, dignified, self-controlled, sound in faith, in love, and in steadfastness.
Titus 2:3  or slaves to much wine. They are to teach what is good,
Titus 2:4 and so train the young women to love their husbands and children,
Titus 2:5 to be self-controlled, that the word of God may not be reviled.
Titus 2:6 Likewise, urge the younger men to be self-controlled.
Titus 2:7 Show yourself in all respects to be dignity,
Titus 2:8 and so that an opponent may be put to shame, having nothing evil to say about us.
Titus 2:9  in everything; they are to be well-pleasing, not argumentative,
Titus 2:10 not pilfering, so that in everything they may adorn the doctrine of God our Savior.
Titus 2:11 For for all people,
Titus 2:12 training us to renounce ungodliness and the present age,
Titus 2:13  God and Savior Jesus Christ,
Titus 2:14  zealous for good works.
Titus 2:15 Declare these things; exhort and Let no one disregard you.
Titus 3:1 Remind them to be obedient, to be ready for every good work,
Titus 3:2  to show perfect courtesy toward all people.
Titus 3:3 For we ourselves were once foolish, disobedient, led astray, slaves to various passions and pleasures, passing our days in malice and envy, hated by others and hating one another.
Titus 3:4 But when the goodness and loving kindness of God our Savior appeared,
Titus 3:5 he saved us, renewal of the Holy Spirit,
Titus 3:6 whom he poured out on us richly through Jesus Christ our Savior,
Titus 3:7 so that according to the hope of eternal life.
Titus 3:8 The saying is to devote themselves to good works. These things are excellent and profitable for people.
Titus 3:9 But they are unprofitable and worthless.
Titus 3:10 As for a person who stirs up division, have nothing more to do with him,
Titus 3:11 knowing that such a person is warped and sinful; he is self-condemned.
Titus 3:12 When I send Artemas or at Nicopolis, for I have decided to spend the winter there.
Titus 3:13 Do your best to speed Zenas the lawyer and Apollos on their way; see that they lack nothing.
Titus 3:14 And let our people learn be unfruitful.
Titus 3:15 All who are with me send greetings to you. Greet those who love us in the faith. Grace be with you all.
Philemon 1:1 Paul, Timothy our brother, To Philemon our beloved fellow worker
Philemon 1:2 and Apphia our sister and the church in your house:
Philemon 1:3  Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ.
Philemon 1:4  I thank my God always when I remember you in my prayers,
Philemon 1:5 because I of the faith that you have toward the Lord Jesus and for all the saints,
Philemon 1:6 and I pray that the sharing of your faith may become effective for the full
Philemon 1:7 For I have derived much joy and have been refreshed through you.
Philemon 1:8 Accordingly, what is required,
Philemon 1:9 yet for love's sake I prefer to appeal to you — I, Paul, an old man and now a prisoner also for Christ Jesus —
Philemon 1:10 I appeal to you for whose father I became in my imprisonment.
Philemon 1:11 (Formerly he was useless to you, but now he is indeed useful to you and to me.)
Philemon 1:12 I am sending him back to you, sending my very heart.
Philemon 1:13 I would have been glad to keep him with me, in order that he might serve me during my imprisonment for the gospel,
Philemon 1:14 but I preferred to do nothing without your consent in order that your goodness might not be by compulsion but of your own accord.
Philemon 1:15 For this perhaps is why he was parted from you for a while, that you might have him back forever,
Philemon 1:16  both in the flesh and in the Lord.
Philemon 1:17 So if you consider me your partner, receive him as you would receive me.
Philemon 1:18 If he has wronged you at all, or owes you anything, charge that to my account.
Philemon 1:19  I, Paul, write this with my own hand: I will repay it — to say nothing of your owing me even your own self.
Philemon 1:20 Yes, brother, I want some benefit from you in the Lord. Refresh my heart in Christ.
Philemon 1:21  Confident of your obedience, I write to you, knowing that you will do even more than I say.
Philemon 1:22 At the same time, prepare a guest room for me, for I will be graciously given to you.
Philemon 1:23  fellow prisoner in Christ Jesus, sends greetings to you,
Philemon 1:24 and so do Luke, my fellow workers.
Philemon 1:25  The grace of the Lord Jesus Christ be with your spirit.
Hebrews 1:1 Long ago, at many times and in many ways, God spoke to our fathers by the prophets,
Hebrews 1:2 but the world.
Hebrews 1:3 He is the radiance of the glory of God and at the right hand of the Majesty on high,
Hebrews 1:4 having become as much superior to angels as the name he has inherited is more excellent than theirs.
Hebrews 1:5 For to which of the angels did God ever say, “I will be to him a father, and he shall be to me a son”?
Hebrews 1:6 And again, when he brings“Let all God's angels worship him.”
Hebrews 1:7 Of the angels he says, “He makes his angels winds, and his ministers a flame of fire.”
Hebrews 1:8 But of the Son he says, “Your throne, O God, is forever and ever, the scepter of uprightness is the scepter of your kingdom.
Hebrews 1:9 You have loved righteousness and hated wickedness; therefore God, your God, the oil of gladness beyond your companions.”
Hebrews 1:10 And, “You, Lord, laid the foundation of the earth in the beginning, and the heavens are the work of your hands;
Hebrews 1:11 they will perish, but you remain; they will all wear out like a garment,
Hebrews 1:12 like a robe you will roll them up, like a garment they will be changed. the same, and your years will have no end.”
Hebrews 1:13 And to which of the angels has he ever said, until I make your enemies a footstool for your feet”?
Hebrews 1:14 Are they not all ministering spirits inherit salvation?
Hebrews 2:1 Therefore we must pay much closer attention to what we have heard, lest we drift away from it.
Hebrews 2:2 For since retribution,
Hebrews 2:3  by those who heard,
Hebrews 2:4  distributed according to his will.
Hebrews 2:5 For it was not to angels that God subjected the world to come, of which we are speaking.
Hebrews 2:6 It has been testified somewhere, “What is man, that you are mindful of him, or the son of man, that you care for him?
Hebrews 2:7 You made him for a little while lower than the angels; you have crowned him with glory and honor,
Hebrews 2:8 putting everything in subjection under his feet.”  Now in putting everything in subjection to him, he left nothing outside his control. At present, we do not yet see everything in subjection to him.
Hebrews 2:9 But we see him for everyone.
Hebrews 2:10 For it perfect through suffering.
Hebrews 2:11 For
Hebrews 2:12 saying,  congregation I will sing your praise.”
Hebrews 2:13 And again,  God has given me.”
Hebrews 2:14 Since therefore the children share in flesh and blood, he himself likewise the one who has the power of death, that is, the devil,
Hebrews 2:15 and deliver all those who through fear of death were subject to lifelong slavery.
Hebrews 2:16 For surely it is not angels that he helps, but he helps the offspring of Abraham.
Hebrews 2:17 Therefore he had in the service of God, to make propitiation for the sins of the people.
Hebrews 2:18 For because he himself has suffered when tempted, he is able to help those who are being tempted.
Hebrews 3:1 Therefore, holy brothers, the apostle and high priest of our confession,
Hebrews 3:2 who was faithful to him who appointed him,  house.
Hebrews 3:3 For Jesus has been counted worthy of more glory than Moses — as much more glory as the builder of a house has more honor than the house itself.
Hebrews 3:4 (For every house is built by someone, but the builder of all things is God.)
Hebrews 3:5  to testify to the things that were to be spoken later,
Hebrews 3:6 but Christ is faithful over God's house as
Hebrews 3:7 Therefore, as the Holy Spirit says, “Today, if you hear his voice,
Hebrews 3:8 do not harden your hearts as in the rebellion, on the day of testing in the wilderness,
Hebrews 3:9 where your fathers put me to the test and saw my works for forty years.
Hebrews 3:10 Therefore I was provoked with that generation, and said, ‘They always go astray in their heart; they have not known my ways.’
Hebrews 3:11  As I swore in my wrath, ‘They shall not enter my rest.’”
Hebrews 3:12 Take care, brothers, lest there be in any of you an evil, unbelieving heart, leading you to fall away from the living God.
Hebrews 3:13 But the deceitfulness of sin.
Hebrews 3:14 For we have come to share in Christ, if indeed we hold our original confidence firm to the end.
Hebrews 3:15 As it is said, “Today, if you hear his voice, do not harden your hearts as in the rebellion.”
Hebrews 3:16 For all those who left Egypt led by Moses?
Hebrews 3:17 And with whom was he provoked for forty years? Was it not with those who sinned, whose bodies fell in the wilderness?
Hebrews 3:18 And to whom did he swear that they would not enter his rest, but to those who were disobedient?
Hebrews 3:19 So we see that they were unable to enter because of unbelief.
Hebrews 4:1 Therefore, while the promise of entering his rest still stands, let us fear lest any of you should seem to have failed to reach it.
Hebrews 4:2 For good news came to us just as to them, but the message they heard did not benefit them, because
Hebrews 4:3 For we who have believed enter that rest, as he has said, “As I swore in my wrath, ‘They shall not enter my rest,’”  although his works were finished from the foundation of the world.
Hebrews 4:4 For he has somewhere spoken of the seventh day in this way: “And God rested on the seventh day from all his works.”
Hebrews 4:5 And again in this passage he said, “They shall not enter my rest.”
Hebrews 4:6 Since therefore it remains for some to enter it, and those who formerly received the good news failed to enter because of disobedience,
Hebrews 4:7 again he appoints a certain day, “Today,” saying through David so long afterward, in the words already quoted, “Today, if you hear his voice, do not harden your hearts.”
Hebrews 4:8 For if Joshua had given them rest, God  would not have spoken of another day later on.
Hebrews 4:9 So then, there remains a Sabbath rest for the people of God,
Hebrews 4:10 for whoever has entered God's rest has also rested from his works as God did from his.
Hebrews 4:11 Let us therefore strive to enter that rest, so that no one may fall by the same sort of disobedience.
Hebrews 4:12 For discerning the thoughts and intentions of the heart.
Hebrews 4:13 And naked and exposed to the eyes of him to whom we must give account.
Hebrews 4:14 Since then we have let us hold fast our confession.
Hebrews 4:15 For we do not have a high priest yet without sin.
Hebrews 4:16  Let us then with confidence draw near to the throne of grace, that we may receive mercy and find grace to help in time of need.
Hebrews 5:1 For every high priest chosen from among men to offer gifts and sacrifices for sins.
Hebrews 5:2  is beset with weakness.
Hebrews 5:3 Because of this he is obligated to offer sacrifice for his own sins just as he does for those of the people.
Hebrews 5:4 And just as Aaron was.
Hebrews 5:5 So also Christ“You are my Son, today I have begotten you”;
Hebrews 5:6 as he says also in another place, “You are a priest forever, after the order of Melchizedek.”
Hebrews 5:7 In the days of his flesh, he was heard because of his reverence.
Hebrews 5:8 Although he learned obedience through what he suffered.
Hebrews 5:9 And being made perfect, he became the source of eternal salvation to all who obey him,
Hebrews 5:10 being designated by God a high priest after the order of Melchizedek.
Hebrews 5:11 About this we have much to say, and it is hard to explain, since you have become dull of hearing.
Hebrews 5:12 For though by this time you ought to be teachers, you need someone to teach you again milk, not solid food,
Hebrews 5:13 for everyone who lives on milk is unskilled in the word of righteousness, since he is a child.
Hebrews 5:14 But solid food is for of discernment trained by constant practice to distinguish good from evil.
Hebrews 6:1 Therefore from dead works and of faith toward God,
Hebrews 6:2 and of eternal judgment.
Hebrews 6:3 And this we will do if God permits.
Hebrews 6:4 For it is impossible, in the case of those have shared in the Holy Spirit,
Hebrews 6:5 and have tasted the goodness of the word of God and the powers of the age to come,
Hebrews 6:6 and they are crucifying once again the Son of God to their own harm and holding him up to contempt.
Hebrews 6:7 For land that has drunk the rain that often falls on it, and produces a crop useful to those for whose sake it is cultivated, receives a blessing from God.
Hebrews 6:8 But and its end is to be burned.
Hebrews 6:9 Though we speak in this way, yet in your case, beloved, we feel sure of better things — things that belong to salvation.
Hebrews 6:10 For serving the saints, as you still do.
Hebrews 6:11 And we desire each one of you to show the same earnestness to have the full assurance of hope until the end,
Hebrews 6:12 so that you may not be sluggish, but imitators of those who through faith and patience inherit the promises.
Hebrews 6:13 For when God made a promise to Abraham, since he had no one greater by whom to swear, he swore by himself,
Hebrews 6:14 saying, “Surely I will bless you and multiply you.”
Hebrews 6:15 And thus Abraham, having patiently waited, obtained the promise.
Hebrews 6:16 For people swear by something greater than themselves, and in all their disputes an oath is final for confirmation.
Hebrews 6:17 So when God desired to show more convincingly to he guaranteed it with an oath,
Hebrews 6:18 so that by two unchangeable things, in which set before us.
Hebrews 6:19 We have this as a sure and steadfast anchor of the soul, a hope that enters into the inner place behind the curtain,
Hebrews 6:20 where Jesus has gone having become a high priest forever after the order of Melchizedek.
Hebrews 7:1 For this the Most High God, met Abraham returning from the slaughter of the kings and blessed him,
Hebrews 7:2 and to him Abraham apportioned a tenth part of everything. He is first, by translation of his name, king of righteousness, and then he is also king of Salem, that is, king of peace.
Hebrews 7:3 He is without father or mother or genealogy, having neither beginning of days nor end of life, but resembling the Son of God he continues a priest forever.
Hebrews 7:4 See how great this man was to whom Abraham the patriarch gave a tenth of the spoils!
Hebrews 7:5 And  though these also are descended from Abraham.
Hebrews 7:6 But this man him who had the promises.
Hebrews 7:7 It is beyond dispute that the inferior is blessed by the superior.
Hebrews 7:8 In the one case tithes are received by mortal men, but in the other case, by one he lives.
Hebrews 7:9 One might even say that Levi himself, who receives tithes, paid tithes through Abraham,
Hebrews 7:10 for he was still in the loins of his ancestor when Melchizedek met him.
Hebrews 7:11  Now if perfection had been attainable through the Levitical priesthood (for under it the people received the law), what further need would there have been for another priest to arise after the order of Melchizedek, rather than one named after the order of Aaron?
Hebrews 7:12 For when there is a change in the priesthood, there is necessarily a change in the law as well.
Hebrews 7:13 For the one of whom these things are spoken belonged to another tribe, from which no one has ever served at the altar.
Hebrews 7:14 For it is evident that our Lord was descended from Judah, and in connection with that tribe Moses said nothing about priests.
Hebrews 7:15 This becomes even more evident when another priest arises in the likeness of Melchizedek,
Hebrews 7:16 who has become a priest, not on the basis of a legal requirement concerning bodily descent, but by the power of an indestructible life.
Hebrews 7:17 For it is witnessed of him, “You are a priest forever, after the order of Melchizedek.”
Hebrews 7:18 For on the one hand, a former commandment is set aside because of its weakness and uselessness
Hebrews 7:19 (for we draw near to God.
Hebrews 7:20 And it was not without an oath. For those who formerly became priests were made such without an oath,
Hebrews 7:21 but this one was made a priest with an oath by the one who said to him: “The Lord has sworn and will not change his mind, ‘You are a priest forever.’”
Hebrews 7:22 This makes Jesus the guarantor of a better covenant.
Hebrews 7:23 The former priests were many in number, because they were prevented by death from continuing in office,
Hebrews 7:24 but he holds his priesthood permanently, because he continues forever.
Hebrews 7:25 Consequently, he is able to save to the uttermost to make intercession for them.
Hebrews 7:26 For it was indeed fitting that we should have such a high priest, exalted above the heavens.
Hebrews 7:27 He has no need, like those high priests, to offer sacrifices daily, once for all when he offered up himself.
Hebrews 7:28 For the law appoints men perfect forever.
Hebrews 8:1 Now the point in what we are saying is this: we have such a high priest, one who is seated at the right hand of the throne of the Majesty in heaven,
Hebrews 8:2 a minister in the holy places, in set up, not man.
Hebrews 8:3 For it is necessary for this priest also to have something to offer.
Hebrews 8:4 Now if he were on earth, he would not be a priest at all, since there are priests who offer gifts according to the law.
Hebrews 8:5 They serve “See that you make everything according to the pattern that was shown you on the mountain.”
Hebrews 8:6 But as it is, Christ he mediates is better, since it is enacted on better promises.
Hebrews 8:7  For if that first covenant had been faultless, there would have been no occasion to look for a second.
Hebrews 8:8 For he finds fault with them when he says:“Behold, the days are coming, declares the Lord, when I will establish a new covenant with the house of Israel and with the house of Judah,
Hebrews 8:9 not like the covenant that I made with their fathers on the day when I took them by the hand to bring them out of the land of Egypt. For they did not continue in my covenant, and so I showed no concern for them, declares the Lord.
Hebrews 8:10  write them on their hearts, and I will be their God, and they shall be my people.
Hebrews 8:11 And they shall not teach, each one his neighbor and each one his brother, saying, ‘Know the Lord,’ for they shall all know me, from the least of them to the greatest.
Hebrews 8:12 For I will be merciful toward their iniquities, and I will remember their sins no more.”
Hebrews 8:13 In speaking of a new covenant, he makes the first one obsolete. And what is becoming obsolete and growing old is ready to vanish away.
Hebrews 9:1 Now even the first covenant had regulations for worship and an earthly place of holiness.
Hebrews 9:2 For  It is called the Holy Place.
Hebrews 9:3 Behind  called the Most Holy Place,
Hebrews 9:4 having the golden the tablets of the covenant.
Hebrews 9:5 Above it were the mercy seat. Of these things we cannot now speak in detail.
Hebrews 9:6 These preparations having thus been made, the priests go regularly into the first section, performing their ritual duties,
Hebrews 9:7 but into the second only which he offers for himself and for the unintentional sins of the people.
Hebrews 9:8 By this the Holy Spirit indicates that the way into the holy places is not yet opened as long as the first section is still standing
Hebrews 9:9 (which is symbolic for the present age). that cannot perfect the conscience of the worshiper,
Hebrews 9:10 but deal only with various washings, regulations for the body imposed until the time of reformation.
Hebrews 9:11 But when Christ appeared as a high priestnot made with hands, that is, not of this creation)
Hebrews 9:12 he thus securing an eternal redemption.
Hebrews 9:13 For if  for the purification of the flesh,
Hebrews 9:14 how much more will to serve the living God.
Hebrews 9:15 Therefore he is
Hebrews 9:16 For where a will is involved, the death of the one who made it must be established.
Hebrews 9:17 For a will takes effect only at death, since it is not in force as long as the one who made it is alive.
Hebrews 9:18 Therefore not even the first covenant was inaugurated without blood.
Hebrews 9:19 For when every commandment of the law had been declared by Moses to all the people, he took with water and scarlet wool and hyssop, and sprinkled both the book itself and all the people,
Hebrews 9:20 saying, “This is the blood of the covenant that God commanded for you.”
Hebrews 9:21 And in the same way he sprinkled with the blood both the tent and all the vessels used in worship.
Hebrews 9:22 Indeed, under the law almost everything is purified with blood, and without the shedding of blood there is no forgiveness of sins.
Hebrews 9:23 Thus it was necessary for the copies of the heavenly things to be purified with these rites, but the heavenly things themselves with better sacrifices than these.
Hebrews 9:24 For Christ has entered, not into holy places on our behalf.
Hebrews 9:25 Nor was it to offer himself repeatedly, as the holy places every year with blood not his own,
Hebrews 9:26 for then he would have had to suffer repeatedly since the foundation of the world. But as it is, at the end of the ages to put away sin by the sacrifice of himself.
Hebrews 9:27 And just as after that comes judgment,
Hebrews 9:28 so Christ, having been offered once waiting for him.
Hebrews 10:1 For since the law has but it can never, by the same sacrifices that are continually offered every year, make perfect those who draw near.
Hebrews 10:2 Otherwise, would they not have ceased to be offered, since the worshipers, having once been cleansed, would no longer have any consciousness of sins?
Hebrews 10:3 But there is a reminder of sins every year.
Hebrews 10:4 For it is impossible for the blood of bulls and goats to take away sins.
Hebrews 10:5 Consequently,“Sacrifices and offerings you have not desired, but a body have you prepared for me;
Hebrews 10:6 in burnt offerings and sin offerings you have taken no pleasure.
Hebrews 10:7 Then I said, ‘Behold, I have come to do your will, O God, as it is written of me in the scroll of the book.’”
Hebrews 10:8 When he said above, “You have neither desired nor taken pleasure in sacrifices and offerings and burnt offerings and sin offerings” (these are offered according to the law),
Hebrews 10:9 then he added, “Behold, I have come to do your will.” He does away with the first in order to establish the second.
Hebrews 10:10 And by that will once for all.
Hebrews 10:11 And every priest stands which can never take away sins.
Hebrews 10:12 But when Christ sat down at the right hand of God,
Hebrews 10:13 waiting from that time until his enemies should be made a footstool for his feet.
Hebrews 10:14 For by a single offering he has perfected for all time those who are being sanctified.
Hebrews 10:15 And the Holy Spirit also bears witness to us; for after saying,
Hebrews 10:16  “This is the covenant that I will make with them after those days, declares the Lord: I will put my laws on their hearts, and write them on their minds,”
Hebrews 10:17 then he adds, “I will remember their sins and their lawless deeds no more.”
Hebrews 10:18 Where there is forgiveness of these, there is no longer any offering for sin.
Hebrews 10:19  the holy places by the blood of Jesus,
Hebrews 10:20 by the curtain, that is, through his flesh,
Hebrews 10:21 and since we have a great priest over the house of God,
Hebrews 10:22 let us draw near with a true heart in full assurance of faith, with our hearts washed with pure water.
Hebrews 10:23  he who promised is faithful.
Hebrews 10:24 And let us consider how to stir up one another to love and good works,
Hebrews 10:25  the Day drawing near.
Hebrews 10:26 For there no longer remains a sacrifice for sins,
Hebrews 10:27  a fury of fire that will consume the adversaries.
Hebrews 10:28  on the evidence of two or three witnesses.
Hebrews 10:29 How much worse punishment, do you think, will be deserved by the one outraged the Spirit of grace?
Hebrews 10:30 For we know him who said, “The Lord will judge his people.”
Hebrews 10:31  It is a fearful thing to fall into the hands of the living God.
Hebrews 10:32 But recall the former days when, after a hard struggle with sufferings,
Hebrews 10:33 sometimes being publicly exposed to reproach and affliction, and sometimes being partners with those so treated.
Hebrews 10:34 For a better possession and an abiding one.
Hebrews 10:35 Therefore do not throw away your confidence, which has a great reward.
Hebrews 10:36 For receive what is promised.
Hebrews 10:37 For,  the coming one will come and will not delay;
Hebrews 10:38  but my righteous one shall live by faith, and if he shrinks back, my soul has no pleasure in him.”
Hebrews 10:39 But we are not of those who shrink back and are destroyed, but of those who have faith and preserve their souls.
Hebrews 11:1 Now faith is the assurance of things hoped for, the conviction of things not seen.
Hebrews 11:2 For by it the people of old received their commendation.
Hebrews 11:3 By faith we understand that the universe was created by things that are visible.
Hebrews 11:4 By faith still speaks.
Hebrews 11:5 By faith Enoch was taken up so that he should not see death, and he was not found, because God had taken him. Now before he was taken he was commended as having pleased God.
Hebrews 11:6 And without faith it is impossible to please him, for whoever would draw near to God that he rewards those who seek him.
Hebrews 11:7 By faith the righteousness that comes by faith.
Hebrews 11:8 By faith that he was to receive as an inheritance. And he went out, not knowing where he was going.
Hebrews 11:9 By faith he went to live in with Isaac and Jacob, heirs with him of the same promise.
Hebrews 11:10 For he was looking forward to whose designer and builder is God.
Hebrews 11:11 By faith him faithful who had promised.
Hebrews 11:12 Therefore from one man, and as many as the stars of heaven and as many as the innumerable grains of sand by the seashore.
Hebrews 11:13 These all died in faith, strangers and exiles on the earth.
Hebrews 11:14 For people who speak thus make it clear that they are seeking a homeland.
Hebrews 11:15 If they had been thinking of that land from which they had gone out, they would have had opportunity to return.
Hebrews 11:16 But as it is, they desire a better country, that is, a heavenly one. Therefore God is not ashamed he has prepared for them a city.
Hebrews 11:17 By faith Abraham, when he was tested, offered up Isaac, and he who had received the promises was in the act of offering up his only son,
Hebrews 11:18 of whom it was said, “Through Isaac shall your offspring be named.”
Hebrews 11:19  He considered that God was able even to raise him from the dead, from which, figuratively speaking, he did receive him back.
Hebrews 11:20 By faith Isaac invoked future blessings on Jacob and Esau.
Hebrews 11:21 By faith bowing in worship over the head of his staff.
Hebrews 11:22 By faith Joseph, at the end of his life, made mention of the exodus of the Israelites and gave directions concerning his bones.
Hebrews 11:23 By faith the king's edict.
Hebrews 11:24 By faith Moses, when he was grown up, refused to be called the son of Pharaoh's daughter,
Hebrews 11:25  the fleeting pleasures of sin.
Hebrews 11:26  the reward.
Hebrews 11:27 By faith he as seeing him who is invisible.
Hebrews 11:28 By faith he kept the Passover and sprinkled the blood, so that the Destroyer of the firstborn might not touch them.
Hebrews 11:29 By faith the people crossed the Red Sea as on dry land, but the Egyptians, when they attempted to do the same, were drowned.
Hebrews 11:30 By faith the walls of Jericho fell down after they had been encircled for seven days.
Hebrews 11:31 By faith had given a friendly welcome to the spies.
Hebrews 11:32 And what more shall I say? For time would fail me to tell of Samuel and the prophets —
Hebrews 11:33 who through faith conquered kingdoms, enforced justice, obtained promises, stopped the mouths of lions,
Hebrews 11:34  put foreign armies to flight.
Hebrews 11:35  Women received back their dead by resurrection. Some were tortured, refusing to accept release, so that they might rise again to a better life.
Hebrews 11:36 Others suffered mocking and flogging, and even chains and imprisonment.
Hebrews 11:37  They went about in skins of sheep and goats, destitute, afflicted, mistreated —
Hebrews 11:38 of whom the world was not worthy — wandering about in deserts and mountains, and in dens and caves of the earth.
Hebrews 11:39 And all these, did not receive what was promised,
Hebrews 11:40 since God had provided something better for us, that apart from us they should not be made perfect.
Hebrews 12:1 Therefore, since we are surrounded by so great a cloud of witnesses, let us also lay aside every weight, and set before us,
Hebrews 12:2 looking to Jesus, the founder and perfecter of our faith, is seated at the right hand of the throne of God.
Hebrews 12:3  fainthearted.
Hebrews 12:4 In your struggle against sin you have not yet resisted to the point of shedding your blood.
Hebrews 12:5 And have you forgotten the exhortation that addresses you as sons?  do not regard lightly the discipline of the Lord, nor be weary when reproved by him.
Hebrews 12:6 For the Lord disciplines the one he loves, and chastises every son whom he receives.”
Hebrews 12:7 It is for discipline that you have to endure. God is treating you as sons. For what son is there whom his father does not discipline?
Hebrews 12:8 If you are left without discipline, in which all have participated, then you are illegitimate children and not sons.
Hebrews 12:9 Besides this, we have had earthly fathers who disciplined us and we respected them. Shall we not much more be subject to and live?
Hebrews 12:10 For they disciplined us for a short time as it seemed best to them, but he disciplines us for our good, that we may share his holiness.
Hebrews 12:11  the peaceful fruit of righteousness to those who have been trained by it.
Hebrews 12:12 Therefore lift your drooping hands and strengthen your weak knees,
Hebrews 12:13 and but rather be healed.
Hebrews 12:14  without which no one will see the Lord.
Hebrews 12:15 See to it that no one “root of bitterness” springs up and causes trouble, and by it many become defiled;
Hebrews 12:16 that no one is sexually immoral or unholy like Esau, who sold his birthright for a single meal.
Hebrews 12:17 For you know that afterward, when he desired to inherit the blessing, he was rejected, for he found no chance to repent, though he sought it with tears.
Hebrews 12:18 For you have not come to what may be touched, a blazing fire and darkness and gloom and a tempest
Hebrews 12:19 and made the hearers beg that no further messages be spoken to them.
Hebrews 12:20 For they could not endure the order that was given, “If even a beast touches the mountain, it shall be stoned.”
Hebrews 12:21 Indeed, so terrifying was the sight that Moses said, “I tremble with fear.”
Hebrews 12:22 But you have come to innumerable angels in festal gathering,
Hebrews 12:23 and to God, the judge of all, and to the spirits of the righteous made perfect,
Hebrews 12:24 and to Jesus, that speaks a better word than the blood of Abel.
Hebrews 12:25 See that you do not refuse him who is speaking. For if they did not escape when they refused him who warned them on earth, much less will we escape if we reject him who warns from heaven.
Hebrews 12:26 At that time “Yet once more I will shake not only the earth but also the heavens.”
Hebrews 12:27 This phrase, “Yet once more,” indicates the removal of things that are shaken — that is, things that have been made — in order that the things that cannot be shaken may remain.
Hebrews 12:28 Therefore let us be grateful for receiving let us offer to God acceptable worship, with reverence and awe,
Hebrews 12:29 for our God is a consuming fire.
Hebrews 13:1 Let brotherly love continue.
Hebrews 13:2  some have entertained angels unawares.
Hebrews 13:3  Remember those who are in prison, as though in prison with them, and those who are mistreated, since you also are in the body.
Hebrews 13:4  the sexually immoral and adulterous.
Hebrews 13:5 Keep your life “I will never leave you nor forsake you.”
Hebrews 13:6 So we can confidently say, I will not fear; what can man do to me?”
Hebrews 13:7 Remember imitate their faith.
Hebrews 13:8 Jesus Christ is the same yesterday and today and forever.
Hebrews 13:9 Do not be not by foods, which have not benefited those devoted to them.
Hebrews 13:10 We have an altar  have no right to eat.
Hebrews 13:11 For outside the camp.
Hebrews 13:12 So Jesus also through his own blood.
Hebrews 13:13 Therefore let us go to him outside the camp and bear the reproach he endured.
Hebrews 13:14 For here we have no lasting city, but we seek the city that is to come.
Hebrews 13:15  the fruit of lips that acknowledge his name.
Hebrews 13:16 Do not neglect to do good and sacrifices are pleasing to God.
Hebrews 13:17 Obey Let them do this with joy and not with groaning, for that would be of no advantage to you.
Hebrews 13:18  Pray for us, for we are sure that we have a clear conscience, desiring to act honorably in all things.
Hebrews 13:19 I urge you the more earnestly to do this in order that I may be restored to you the sooner.
Hebrews 13:20 Now the blood of the eternal covenant,
Hebrews 13:21  to whom be glory forever and ever. Amen.
Hebrews 13:22 I appeal to you, brothers, I have written to you briefly.
Hebrews 13:23 You should know that our brother Timothy has been released, with whom I shall see you if he comes soon.
Hebrews 13:24 Greet all your leaders and all the saints. Those who come from Italy send you greetings.
Hebrews 13:25  Grace be with all of you.
James 1:1  the Dispersion: Greetings.
James 1:2  of various kinds,
James 1:3 for you know that produces steadfastness.
James 1:4 And let steadfastness have its full effect, that you may be perfect and complete, lacking in nothing.
James 1:5  who gives generously to all without reproach, and it will be given him.
James 1:6 But a wave of the sea that is driven and tossed by the wind.
James 1:7 For that person must not suppose that he will receive anything from the Lord;
James 1:8  unstable in all his ways.
James 1:9 Let the lowly brother boast in his exaltation,
James 1:10 and  he will pass away.
James 1:11 For the sun rises with its scorching heat and withers the grass; its flower falls, and its beauty perishes. So also will the rich man fade away in the midst of his pursuits.
James 1:12  which God has promised to those who love him.
James 1:13 Let no one say when he is tempted, “I am being tempted by God,” for God cannot be tempted with evil, and he himself tempts no one.
James 1:14 But each person is tempted when he is lured and enticed by his own desire.
James 1:15 Then desire sin when it is fully grown brings forth death.
James 1:16 Do not be deceived, my beloved brothers.
James 1:17
James 1:18  firstfruits of his creatures.
James 1:19  slow to anger;
James 1:20 for the anger of man does not produce the righteousness of God.
James 1:21 Therefore which is able to save your souls.
James 1:22 But be doers of the word, and not hearers only, deceiving yourselves.
James 1:23 For if anyone is a hearer of the word and not a doer, he is like a man who looks intently at his natural face in a mirror.
James 1:24 For he looks at himself and goes away and at once forgets what he was like.
James 1:25 But the one who looks into the perfect law, he will be blessed in his doing.
James 1:26 If anyone thinks he is religious religion is worthless.
James 1:27 Religion that is pure and undefiled before God the Father is this: unstained from the world.
James 2:1 My brothers, the Lord of glory.
James 2:2 For if a man wearing a gold ring and fine clothing comes into your assembly, and a poor man in shabby clothing also comes in,
James 2:3 and if you pay attention to the one who wears the fine clothing and say, “You sit here in a good place,” while you say to the poor man, “You stand over there,” or, “Sit down at my feet,”
James 2:4 have you not then made distinctions among yourselves and become judges with evil thoughts?
James 2:5 Listen, my beloved brothers, which he has promised to those who love him?
James 2:6 But you into court?
James 2:7 Are they not the ones who blaspheme the honorable name by which you were called?
James 2:8 If you really fulfill the royal law according to the Scripture, “You shall love your neighbor as yourself,” you are doing well.
James 2:9 But if you show partiality, you are committing sin and are convicted by the law as transgressors.
James 2:10 For whoever keeps the whole law but fails in one point has become guilty of all of it.
James 2:11 For he who said, “Do not murder.” If you do not commit adultery but do murder, you have become a transgressor of the law.
James 2:12 So speak and so act as those who are to be judged under the law of liberty.
James 2:13 For judgment is without mercy to one who has shown no mercy. Mercy triumphs over judgment.
James 2:14 What good is it, my brothers, if someone says he has faith but does not have works? Can that faith save him?
James 2:15  If a brother or sister is poorly clothed and lacking in daily food,
James 2:16   is that?
James 2:17 So also faith by itself, if it does not have works, is dead.
James 2:18 But someone will say, “You have faith and I have works.” Show me your faith by my works.
James 2:19  the demons believe — and shudder!
James 2:20 Do you want to be shown, you foolish person, that faith apart from works is useless?
James 2:21  Was not Abraham our father justified by works when he offered up his son Isaac on the altar?
James 2:22 You see that by his works;
James 2:23 and the Scripture was fulfilled that says, friend of God.
James 2:24 You see that a person is justified by works and not by faith alone.
James 2:25 And in the same way was not also when she received the messengers and sent them out by another way?
James 2:26 For as the body apart from the spirit is dead, so also faith apart from works is dead.
James 3:1  Not many of you should become teachers, my brothers, for you know that we who teach will be judged with greater strictness.
James 3:2 For able also to bridle his whole body.
James 3:3 If we put bits into the mouths of horses so that they obey us, we guide their whole bodies as well.
James 3:4 Look at the ships also: though they are so large and are driven by strong winds, they are guided by a very small rudder wherever the will of the pilot directs.
James 3:5 So also the tongue is a small member, yet it boasts of great things. How great a forest is set ablaze by such a small fire!
James 3:6 And
James 3:7 For every kind of beast and bird, of reptile and sea creature, can be tamed and has been tamed by mankind,
James 3:8 but no human being can tame the tongue. It is a restless evil, full of deadly poison.
James 3:9 With it we bless our Lord and Father, and with it we curse people who are made in the likeness of God.
James 3:10 From the same mouth come blessing and cursing. My brothers,  these things ought not to be so.
James 3:11 Does a spring pour forth from the same opening both fresh and salt water?
James 3:12 Can a fig tree, my brothers, bear olives, or a grapevine produce figs? Neither can a salt pond yield fresh water.
James 3:13 Who is wise and understanding among you? in the meekness of wisdom.
James 3:14 But if you have bitter jealousy and selfish ambition in your hearts, do not boast and be false to the truth.
James 3:15 This is not demonic.
James 3:16 For where jealousy and selfish ambition exist, there will be disorder and every vile practice.
James 3:17 But sincere.
James 3:18 And is sown in peace by those who make peace.
James 4:1 What causes quarrels and what causes fights among you? Is it not this, that your passions
James 4:2 You desire and do not have, so you murder. You covet and cannot obtain, so you fight and quarrel. You do not have, because you do not ask.
James 4:3 You ask and do not receive, because you ask wrongly, to spend it on your passions.
James 4:4  Therefore whoever wishes to be a friend of the world makes himself an enemy of God.
James 4:5 Or do you suppose it is to no purpose that the Scripture says, “He yearns jealously over the spirit that he has made to dwell in us”?
James 4:6 But gives grace to the humble.”
James 4:7 Submit yourselves therefore to God. Resist the devil, and he will flee from you.
James 4:8  you double-minded.
James 4:9  Be wretched and mourn and weep. Let your laughter be turned to mourning and your joy to gloom.
James 4:10  Humble yourselves before the Lord, and he will exalt you.
James 4:11  judges his brother, speaks evil against the law and judges the law. But if you judge the law, you are not a doer of the law but a judge.
James 4:12 There is only who are you to judge your neighbor?
James 4:13 Come now, you who say, “Today or tomorrow we will go into such and such a town and spend a year there and trade and make a profit” —
James 4:14 yet you do not know what tomorrow will bring. What is your life? For you are a mist that appears for a little time and then vanishes.
James 4:15 Instead you ought to say, “If the Lord wills, we will live and do this or that.”
James 4:16 As it is, you boast in your arrogance. All such boasting is evil.
James 4:17  So whoever knows the right thing to do and fails to do it, for him it is sin.
James 5:1 Come now, miseries that are coming upon you.
James 5:2  your garments are moth-eaten.
James 5:3 Your gold and silver have corroded, and their corrosion will be evidence against you and will eat your flesh like fire. in the last days.
James 5:4 Behold, the Lord of hosts.
James 5:5  a day of slaughter.
James 5:6 You have condemned and the righteous person. He does not resist you.
James 5:7 Be patient, therefore, brothers, the early and the late rains.
James 5:8 You also, be patient. is at hand.
James 5:9 Do not grumble against one another, brothers, at the door.
James 5:10 As an example of suffering and patience, brothers, take the prophets who spoke in the name of the Lord.
James 5:11 Behold, we consider those blessed who remained steadfast. You have heard of the Lord is compassionate and merciful.
James 5:12 But above all, my brothers, do not swear, either by heaven or by earth or by any other oath, but let your “yes” be yes and your “no” be no, so that you may not fall under condemnation.
James 5:13 Is anyone among you suffering? Let him pray. Is anyone cheerful? Let him sing praise.
James 5:14 Is anyone among you sick? Let him call for the elders of the church, and let them pray over him, anointing him with oil in the name of the Lord.
James 5:15 And the prayer of faith will save the one who is sick, and the Lord will raise him up. And if he has committed sins, he will be forgiven.
James 5:16 Therefore,
James 5:17 Elijah was a man three years and six months it did not rain on the earth.
James 5:18  Then he prayed again, and heaven gave rain, and the earth bore its fruit.
James 5:19 My brothers, brings him back,
James 5:20 let him know that whoever brings back a sinner from his wandering will cover a multitude of sins.
1 Peter 1:1 Peter, an apostle of Jesus Christ, To those who are elect exiles of the Dispersion in Pontus, Galatia, Cappadocia, Asia, and Bithynia,
1 Peter 1:2 according to peace be multiplied to you.
1 Peter 1:3  through the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead,
1 Peter 1:4 to kept in heaven for you,
1 Peter 1:5 who by God's power are being guarded ready to be revealed in the last time.
1 Peter 1:6 In this you rejoice, though now for a little while, if necessary, you have been grieved by various trials,
1 Peter 1:7 so that praise and glory and honor at the revelation of Jesus Christ.
1 Peter 1:8  Though you do not now see him, you believe in him and rejoice with joy that is inexpressible and filled with glory,
1 Peter 1:9 obtaining the outcome of your faith, the salvation of your souls.
1 Peter 1:10 Concerning this salvation, the prophets who prophesied about the grace that was to be yours searched and inquired carefully,
1 Peter 1:11 inquiring the sufferings of Christ and the subsequent glories.
1 Peter 1:12  things into which angels long to look.
1 Peter 1:13 Therefore, being sober-minded, set your hope fully on the grace that will be brought to you at the revelation of Jesus Christ.
1 Peter 1:14 As obedient children, of your former ignorance,
1 Peter 1:15 but in all your conduct,
1 Peter 1:16 since it is written, “You shall be holy, for I am holy.”
1 Peter 1:17 And if you with fear throughout the time of your exile,
1 Peter 1:18 knowing that you the futile ways inherited from your forefathers, not with perishable things such as silver or gold,
1 Peter 1:19 but without blemish or spot.
1 Peter 1:20 He was foreknown before the foundation of the world but in the last times for the sake of you
1 Peter 1:21  gave him glory, so that your faith and hope are in God.
1 Peter 1:22 Having purified your souls by your obedience to the truth for love one another earnestly from a pure heart,
1 Peter 1:23  the living and abiding word of God;
1 Peter 1:24 for “All flesh is like grass and all its glory like the flower of grass. The grass withers, and the flower falls,
1 Peter 1:25  is the good news that was preached to you.
1 Peter 2:1  So put away all malice and all deceit and hypocrisy and envy and all slander.
1 Peter 2:2  milk, that by it you may grow up into salvation —
1 Peter 2:3 if indeed you have tasted that the Lord is good.
1 Peter 2:4 As you come to him, a living stone rejected by men but in the sight of God chosen and precious,
1 Peter 2:5  acceptable to God through Jesus Christ.
1 Peter 2:6 For it stands in Scripture: and whoever believes in him will not be put to shame.”
1 Peter 2:7 So the honor is for you who
1 Peter 2:8 and  as they were destined to do.
1 Peter 2:9 But you are his marvelous light.
1 Peter 2:10  Once you were not a people, but now you are God's people; once you had not received mercy, but now you have received mercy.
1 Peter 2:11 Beloved, I urge you which wage war against your soul.
1 Peter 2:12  the day of visitation.
1 Peter 2:13   as supreme,
1 Peter 2:14 or to governors as sent by him to praise those who do good.
1 Peter 2:15 For this is the will of God, that by doing good you should put to silence the ignorance of foolish people.
1 Peter 2:16   of God.
1 Peter 2:17  Fear God. Honor the emperor.
1 Peter 2:18  Servants, be subject to your masters with all respect, not only to the good and gentle but also to the unjust.
1 Peter 2:19 For this is a gracious thing, when, mindful of God, one endures sorrows while suffering unjustly.
1 Peter 2:20 For what credit is it if, when you sin and are beaten for it, you endure? But if when you do good and suffer for it you endure, this is a gracious thing in the sight of God.
1 Peter 2:21 For leaving you an example, so that you might follow in his steps.
1 Peter 2:22  He committed no sin, neither was deceit found in his mouth.
1 Peter 2:23  but continued entrusting himself to him who judges justly.
1 Peter 2:24  By his wounds you have been healed.
1 Peter 2:25 For the Shepherd and Overseer of your souls.
1 Peter 3:1 Likewise, wives, they may be won without a word by the conduct of their wives,
1 Peter 3:2 when they see your respectful and pure conduct.
1 Peter 3:3  Do not let your adorning be external — the braiding of hair and the putting on of gold jewelry, or the clothing you wear —
1 Peter 3:4 but let your adorning be the hidden person of the heart with the imperishable beauty of a gentle and quiet spirit, which in God's sight is very precious.
1 Peter 3:5 For this is how the holy women who hoped in God used to adorn themselves, by submitting to their own husbands,
1 Peter 3:6 as Sarah obeyed Abraham, do not fear anything that is frightening.
1 Peter 3:7 Likewise,  of the grace of life, so that your prayers may not be hindered.
1 Peter 3:8 Finally, all of you, a humble mind.
1 Peter 3:9  to this you were called, that you may obtain a blessing.
1 Peter 3:10 For “Whoever desires to love life and see good days, let him keep his tongue from evil and his lips from speaking deceit;
1 Peter 3:11 let him turn away from evil and do good; let him seek peace and pursue it.
1 Peter 3:12 For the eyes of the Lord are on the righteous, and his ears are open to their prayer. But the face of the Lord is against those who do evil.”
1 Peter 3:13 Now who is there to harm you if you are zealous for what is good?
1 Peter 3:14  nor be troubled,
1 Peter 3:15 but respect,
1 Peter 3:16  when you are slandered, those who revile your good behavior in Christ may be put to shame.
1 Peter 3:17 For it is better to suffer for doing good, if that should be God's will, than for doing evil.
1 Peter 3:18 For Christ also in the spirit,
1 Peter 3:19 in which  to the spirits in prison,
1 Peter 3:20 because eight persons, were brought safely through water.
1 Peter 3:21 Baptism, which corresponds to this, through the resurrection of Jesus Christ,
1 Peter 3:22 who has gone into heaven and with angels, authorities, and powers having been subjected to him.
1 Peter 4:1 Since therefore has ceased from sin,
1 Peter 4:2  for the will of God.
1 Peter 4:3 For the time that is past for doing what the Gentiles want to do, living in sensuality, passions, drunkenness, orgies, drinking parties, and lawless idolatry.
1 Peter 4:4 With respect to this they are surprised when you do not join them in the same flood of they malign you;
1 Peter 4:5 but they will give account to him who is ready to judge the living and the dead.
1 Peter 4:6 For this is why the gospel was preached even to those who are dead, that though judged in the flesh the way people are, they might live in the spirit the way God does.
1 Peter 4:7  for the sake of your prayers.
1 Peter 4:8 Above all, keep loving one another earnestly, since love covers a multitude of sins.
1 Peter 4:9  Show hospitality to one another without grumbling.
1 Peter 4:10  as good stewards of God's varied grace:
1 Peter 4:11 whoever speaks, as one who speaks dominion forever and ever. Amen.
1 Peter 4:12 Beloved, do not be surprised at the fiery trial when it comes upon you to test you, as though something strange were happening to you.
1 Peter 4:13 But rejoice when his glory is revealed.
1 Peter 4:14   and of God rests upon you.
1 Peter 4:15 But as a meddler.
1 Peter 4:16 Yet in that name.
1 Peter 4:17 For it is time for judgment do not obey the gospel of God?
1 Peter 4:18 And
1 Peter 4:19 Therefore let those who suffer according to God's will entrust their souls to a faithful Creator while doing good.
1 Peter 5:1 So I exhort the elders among you, a witness of the sufferings of Christ, as well as a partaker in the glory that is going to be revealed:
1 Peter 5:2  not for shameful gain, but eagerly;
1 Peter 5:3 not being examples to the flock.
1 Peter 5:4 And when crown of glory.
1 Peter 5:5 Likewise, you who are younger, be subject to the elders. “God opposes the proud but gives grace to the humble.”
1 Peter 5:6  Humble yourselves, therefore, under the mighty hand of God so that at the proper time he may exalt you,
1 Peter 5:7  he cares for you.
1 Peter 5:8  like a roaring lion, seeking someone to devour.
1 Peter 5:9  the same kinds of suffering are being experienced by your brotherhood throughout the world.
1 Peter 5:10 And confirm, strengthen, and establish you.
1 Peter 5:11  To him be the dominion forever and ever. Amen.
1 Peter 5:12 By Stand firm in it.
1 Peter 5:13 She who is at Babylon, who is likewise chosen, sends you greetings, and so does Mark, my son.
1 Peter 5:14 Peace to all of you who are in Christ.
2 Peter 1:1 Simeon God and Savior Jesus Christ:
2 Peter 1:2  in the knowledge of God and of Jesus our Lord.
2 Peter 1:3 His divine power has granted to us all things that pertain to life and godliness, through the knowledge of him
2 Peter 1:4 by which he has granted to us his precious and very great promises, so that through them you may become having escaped from the corruption that is in the world because of sinful desire.
2 Peter 1:5 For this very reason, make every effort to supplement your faith with knowledge,
2 Peter 1:6 and knowledge with self-control, and self-control with steadfastness, and steadfastness with godliness,
2 Peter 1:7 and godliness with love.
2 Peter 1:8 For if these qualities unfruitful in the knowledge of our Lord Jesus Christ.
2 Peter 1:9 For whoever lacks these qualities is so nearsighted that he cleansed from his former sins.
2 Peter 1:10 Therefore, brothers, you will never fall.
2 Peter 1:11 For in this way there will be richly provided for you an entrance into the eternal kingdom of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ.
2 Peter 1:12 Therefore I intend the truth that you have.
2 Peter 1:13 I think it right, as long as I am in this to stir you up by way of reminder,
2 Peter 1:14  as our Lord Jesus Christ made clear to me.
2 Peter 1:15 And I will make every effort so that after my departure you may be able at any time to recall these things.
2 Peter 1:16 For we did not follow we were eyewitnesses of his majesty.
2 Peter 1:17 For when he received honor and glory from God the Father, and the voice was borne to him by the Majestic Glory,  with whom I am well pleased,”
2 Peter 1:18 we ourselves heard this very voice borne from heaven, for we were with him on the holy mountain.
2 Peter 1:19 And dawns and the morning star rises in your hearts,
2 Peter 1:20 knowing this first of all, that no prophecy of Scripture comes from someone's own interpretation.
2 Peter 1:21 For as they were carried along by the Holy Spirit.
2 Peter 2:1 But who bought them, bringing upon themselves swift destruction.
2 Peter 2:2 And many will follow their sensuality, and because of them the way of truth will be blasphemed.
2 Peter 2:3 And Their condemnation from long ago is not idle, and their destruction is not asleep.
2 Peter 2:4 For if God did not spare to be kept until the judgment;
2 Peter 2:5 if he did not spare the ancient world, but a flood upon the world of the ungodly;
2 Peter 2:6 if by
2 Peter 2:7 and if he rescued righteous Lot, greatly distressed by the sensual conduct of the wicked
2 Peter 2:8 (for as that righteous man lived among them day after day, he was tormenting his righteous soul over their lawless deeds that he saw and heard);
2 Peter 2:9 then  and to keep the unrighteous under punishment until the day of judgment,
2 Peter 2:10 and especially as they blaspheme the glorious ones,
2 Peter 2:11  whereas angels, though greater in might and power, do not pronounce a blasphemous judgment against them before the Lord.
2 Peter 2:12  creatures of instinct, born to be caught and destroyed, blaspheming about matters of which they are ignorant, will also be destroyed in their destruction,
2 Peter 2:13 suffering wrong as they feast with you.
2 Peter 2:14 They have eyes full of adultery, Accursed children!
2 Peter 2:15 Forsaking the right way, gain from wrongdoing,
2 Peter 2:16 but was rebuked for his own transgression; a speechless donkey spoke with human voice and restrained the prophet's madness.
2 Peter 2:17  For them the gloom of utter darkness has been reserved.
2 Peter 2:18 For, escaping from those who live in error.
2 Peter 2:19 They promise them  of corruption. For whatever overcomes a person, to that he is enslaved.
2 Peter 2:20 For if, the last state has become worse for them than the first.
2 Peter 2:21 For the holy commandment delivered to them.
2 Peter 2:22 What the true proverb says has happened to them: “The dog returns to its own vomit, and the sow, after washing herself, returns to wallow in the mire.”
2 Peter 3:1 This is now the second letter that I am writing to you, beloved. In both of them I am stirring up your sincere mind by way of reminder,
2 Peter 3:2  the holy prophets and the commandment of the Lord and Savior through your apostles,
2 Peter 3:3 knowing this first of all, that scoffers will come following their own sinful desires.
2 Peter 3:4  his coming? For ever since the fathers fell asleep, all things are continuing as they were from the beginning of creation.”
2 Peter 3:5 For they deliberately overlook this fact, that the heavens existed long ago, and the earth by the word of God,
2 Peter 3:6 and that by means of these the world that then existed perished.
2 Peter 3:7 But by the same word destruction of the ungodly.
2 Peter 3:8 But do not overlook this one fact, beloved, that with the Lord one day is as a thousand years, and a thousand years as one day.
2 Peter 3:9  that all should reach repentance.
2 Peter 3:10 But
2 Peter 3:11 Since all these things are thus to be dissolved, what sort of people ought you to be in lives of holiness and godliness,
2 Peter 3:12  the heavenly bodies will melt as they burn!
2 Peter 3:13 But according to his promise we are waiting for in which righteousness dwells.
2 Peter 3:14  at peace.
2 Peter 3:15 And count according to the wisdom given him,
2 Peter 3:16 as he does in all his letters when he speaks in them of these matters. as they do the other Scriptures.
2 Peter 3:17 You therefore, beloved, take care that you are not carried away with the error of lawless people and lose your own stability.
2 Peter 3:18 But eternity. Amen.
1 John 1:1  have touched with our hands, concerning the word of life —
1 John 1:2  was made manifest to us —
1 John 1:3  our fellowship is with the Father and with his Son Jesus Christ.
1 John 1:4 And we are writing these things so  joy may be complete.
1 John 1:5  God is light, and in him is no darkness at all.
1 John 1:6  do not practice the truth.
1 John 1:7 But the blood of Jesus his Son cleanses us from all sin.
1 John 1:8  the truth is not in us.
1 John 1:9  to cleanse us from all unrighteousness.
1 John 1:10 If we say we have not sinned, his word is not in us.
1 John 2:1 My little children, I am writing these things to you so that you may not sin. But if anyone does sin, we have an advocate with the Father, Jesus Christ the righteous.
1 John 2:2  also for the sins of the whole world.
1 John 2:3 And by this we know that we have come to know him, if we keep his commandments.
1 John 2:4 Whoever says “I know him” but does not keep his commandments the truth is not in him,
1 John 2:5 but whoever By this we may know that we are in him:
1 John 2:6 whoever says he ought to walk in the same way in which he walked.
1 John 2:7 Beloved, I am writing you that you had from the beginning. The old commandment is the word that you have heard.
1 John 2:8 At the same time, it is the true light is already shining.
1 John 2:9 Whoever says he is in the light and hates his brother is still in darkness.
1 John 2:10 Whoever loves his brother abides in the light, and in him cause for stumbling.
1 John 2:11 But whoever hates his brother is in the darkness and walks in the darkness, and does not know where he is going, because the darkness has blinded his eyes.
1 John 2:12 I am writing to you, little children, because your sins are forgiven for his name's sake.
1 John 2:13 I am writing to you, fathers, because you know you know the Father.
1 John 2:14 I write to you, fathers, because you know you are strong, and the word of God abides in you, and you have overcome the evil one.
1 John 2:15  If anyone loves the world, the love of the Father is not in him.
1 John 2:16 For all that is in the world —  — is not from the Father but is from the world.
1 John 2:17 And the world is passing away along with its desires, but whoever does the will of God abides forever.
1 John 2:18 Children, Therefore we know that it is the last hour.
1 John 2:19  that it might become plain that they all are not of us.
1 John 2:20 But you have been
1 John 2:21 I write to you, not because you do not know the truth, but because you know it, and because no lie is of the truth.
1 John 2:22 Who is the liar but the antichrist, he who denies the Father and the Son.
1 John 2:23  No one who denies the Son has the Father. Whoever confesses the Son has the Father also.
1 John 2:24 Let you too will abide in the Son and in the Father.
1 John 2:25 And this is the promise that he made to us eternal life.
1 John 2:26 I write these things to you about those who are trying to deceive you.
1 John 2:27 But is true, and is no lie — just as it has taught you, abide in him.
1 John 2:28 And now, little children, abide in him, so that coming.
1 John 2:29 If you know that everyone who practices righteousness has been born of him.
1 John 3:1 See it did not know him.
1 John 3:2 Beloved, we are we shall see him as he is.
1 John 3:3 And everyone who purifies himself as he is pure.
1 John 3:4 Everyone who makes a practice of sinning also practices lawlessness; sin is lawlessness.
1 John 3:5 You know that in him there is no sin.
1 John 3:6 No one who abides in him keeps on sinning; no one who keeps on sinning has either seen him or known him.
1 John 3:7 Little children, Whoever practices righteousness is righteous, as he is righteous.
1 John 3:8  to destroy the works of the devil.
1 John 3:9   seed abides in him; and he cannot keep on sinning, because he has been born of God.
1 John 3:10 By this it is evident who are the children of God, and who are the children of the devil: whoever does not practice righteousness is not of God, does not love his brother.
1 John 3:11 For that we should love one another.
1 John 3:12 We should not be like Because his own deeds were evil and his brother's righteous.
1 John 3:13 Do not be surprised, brothers, that the world hates you.
1 John 3:14 We know that we have passed out of death into life, because we love the brothers. Whoever does not love abides in death.
1 John 3:15  no murderer has eternal life abiding in him.
1 John 3:16 By this we know love, that we ought to lay down our lives for the brothers.
1 John 3:17 But how does God's love abide in him?
1 John 3:18 Little children, let us not in truth.
1 John 3:19 By this we shall know that we are of the truth and reassure our heart before him;
1 John 3:20 for whenever our heart condemns us, God is greater than our heart, and he knows everything.
1 John 3:21 Beloved, we have confidence before God;
1 John 3:22 and do what pleases him.
1 John 3:23 And this is his commandment, just as he has commanded us.
1 John 3:24  by this we know that he abides in us, by the Spirit whom he has given us.
1 John 4:1 Beloved, have gone out into the world.
1 John 4:2 By this you know the Spirit of God: Jesus Christ has come in the flesh is from God,
1 John 4:3 and every spirit now is in the world already.
1 John 4:4 Little children, you are from God and have overcome them, for he who is in the world.
1 John 4:5  the world listens to them.
1 John 4:6 We are from God. the spirit of error.
1 John 4:7 Beloved, whoever loves has been born of God and knows God.
1 John 4:8  God is love.
1 John 4:9 In this the love of God was made manifest among us, that God sent his only Son into the world, so that we might live through him.
1 John 4:10 In this is love, the propitiation for our sins.
1 John 4:11 Beloved, if God so loved us, we also ought to love one another.
1 John 4:12  his love is perfected in us.
1 John 4:13  By this we know that we abide in him and he in us, because he has given us of his Spirit.
1 John 4:14 And the world.
1 John 4:15  Whoever confesses that Jesus is the Son of God, God abides in him, and he in God.
1 John 4:16 So whoever abides in love abides in God, and God abides in him.
1 John 4:17 By this as he is so also are we in this world.
1 John 4:18 There is no fear in love, but been perfected in love.
1 John 4:19  We love because he first loved us.
1 John 4:20  whom he has not seen.
1 John 4:21 And whoever loves God must also love his brother.
1 John 5:1  everyone who loves the Father loves whoever has been born of him.
1 John 5:2  By this we know that we love the children of God, when we love God and obey his commandments.
1 John 5:3 For his commandments are not burdensome.
1 John 5:4 For our faith.
1 John 5:5 Who is it that overcomes the world except the one who believes that Jesus is the Son of God?
1 John 5:6 This is he who came the Spirit is the truth.
1 John 5:7 For there are three that testify:
1 John 5:8 the Spirit and the water and the blood; and these three agree.
1 John 5:9  that he has borne concerning his Son.
1 John 5:10 Whoever believes in the Son of God because he has not believed in the testimony that God has borne concerning his Son.
1 John 5:11 And this is the testimony, that God gave us this life is in his Son.
1 John 5:12  Whoever has the Son has life; whoever does not have the Son of God does not have life.
1 John 5:13 I write believe in the name of the Son of God, that you may know that you have eternal life.
1 John 5:14 And this is if we ask anything according to his will he hears us.
1 John 5:15 And if we know that he hears us in whatever we ask, we know that we have the requests that we have asked of him.
1 John 5:16 If anyone sees his brother committing a sin not leading to death, he shall ask, and I do not say that one should pray for that.
1 John 5:17  All wrongdoing is sin, but there is sin that does not lead to death.
1 John 5:18 We know that protects him, and the evil one does not touch him.
1 John 5:19 We know that we are from God, and the whole world lies in the power of the evil one.
1 John 5:20 And we know that the Son of God has come and eternal life.
1 John 5:21 Little children, keep yourselves from idols.
2 John 1:1  the truth,
2 John 1:2  because of the truth that abides in us and will be with us forever:
2 John 1:3  Grace, mercy, and peace will be with us, from God the Father and from Jesus Christ the Father's Son, in truth and love.
2 John 1:4  I rejoiced greatly to find some of your children walking in the truth, just as we were commanded by the Father.
2 John 1:5 And now I ask you, dear lady — that we love one another.
2 John 1:6 And as you have heard from the beginning, so that you should walk in it.
2 John 1:7 For those who do not confess the coming of Jesus Christ in the flesh. Such a one is the deceiver and the antichrist.
2 John 1:8 Watch yourselves, may win a full reward.
2 John 1:9 Everyone who goes on ahead and does not abide in the teaching of Christ, has both the Father and the Son.
2 John 1:10 If anyone comes to you and does not bring this teaching, do not receive him into your house or give him any greeting,
2 John 1:11 for whoever greets him takes part in his wicked works.
2 John 1:12  so that our joy may be complete.
2 John 1:13 The children of your elect sister greet you.
3 John 1:1  whom I love in truth.
3 John 1:2 Beloved, I pray that all may go well with you and that you may be in good health, as it goes well with your soul.
3 John 1:3 For  came and testified to your truth, as indeed you are walking in the truth.
3 John 1:4 I have no greater joy than to hear that my children are walking in the truth.
3 John 1:5 Beloved, it is a faithful thing you do in all your efforts for strangers as they are,
3 John 1:6 who testified to your love before the church. You will do well to send them on their journey in a manner worthy of God.
3 John 1:7 For they have gone out for the sake of accepting nothing from the Gentiles.
3 John 1:8 Therefore we ought to support people like these, that we may be fellow workers for the truth.
3 John 1:9 I have written something to the church, but Diotrephes, who likes to put himself first, does not acknowledge our authority.
3 John 1:10 So if I come, I will bring up what he is doing, talking wicked nonsense against us. And not content with that, he refuses to welcome the brothers, and also stops those who want to and puts them out of the church.
3 John 1:11 Beloved, whoever does evil has not seen God.
3 John 1:12 Demetrius you know that our testimony is true.
3 John 1:13  I had much to write to you, but I would rather not write with pen and ink.
3 John 1:14 I hope to see you soon, and we will talk face to face.
3 John 1:15 Peace be to you. The friends greet you. Greet the friends, each by name.
Jude 1:1 Jude, a servant  Jesus Christ:
Jude 1:2 May peace, and love be multiplied to you.
Jude 1:3 Beloved, although I was very eager to write to you about our to contend for the faith that was once for all delivered to the saints.
Jude 1:4 For deny our only Master and Lord, Jesus Christ.
Jude 1:5 Now I want afterward destroyed those who did not believe.
Jude 1:6 And the angels who did not stay within their own position of authority, but left their proper dwelling, he has kept in eternal chains under gloomy darkness until the judgment of the great day —
Jude 1:7 just as  serve as an example by undergoing a punishment of eternal fire.
Jude 1:8 Yet in like manner these people also, relying on their dreams, defile the flesh, reject authority, and blaspheme the glorious ones.
Jude 1:9 But when “The Lord rebuke you.”
Jude 1:10  But these people blaspheme all that they do not understand, and they are destroyed by all that they, like unreasoning animals, understand instinctively.
Jude 1:11 Woe to them! For they walked in perished in Korah's rebellion.
Jude 1:12 These are hidden reefs uprooted;
Jude 1:13  for whom the gloom of utter darkness has been reserved forever.
Jude 1:14 It was also about these that Enoch, “Behold, the Lord comes with ten thousands of his holy ones,
Jude 1:15  the harsh things that ungodly sinners have spoken against him.”
Jude 1:16 These are grumblers, malcontents, showing favoritism to gain advantage.
Jude 1:17 But you must remember, beloved, the predictions of the apostles of our Lord Jesus Christ.
Jude 1:18 They “In the last time there will be scoffers, following their own ungodly passions.”
Jude 1:19 It is these who cause divisions, worldly people, devoid of the Spirit.
Jude 1:20 But you, beloved, praying in the Holy Spirit,
Jude 1:21  waiting for the mercy of our Lord Jesus Christ that leads to eternal life.
Jude 1:22 And have mercy on those who doubt;
Jude 1:23 save others by  stained by the flesh.
Jude 1:24  blameless before the presence of his glory with great joy,
Jude 1:25 to  and now and forever. Amen.
Revelation 1:1 The revelation of Jesus Christ, which God He made it known by sending his angel to his servant John,
Revelation 1:2  to all that he saw.
Revelation 1:3  for the time is near.
Revelation 1:4 John to the seven churches that are in Asia: Grace to you and peace from the seven spirits who are before his throne,
Revelation 1:5 and from Jesus Christ has freed us from our sins by his blood
Revelation 1:6 and made us dominion forever and ever. Amen.
Revelation 1:7 Behold,  on account of him. Even so. Amen.
Revelation 1:8  “who is and who was and who is to come, the Almighty.”
Revelation 1:9 I, John, your brother and on account of the word of God and the testimony of Jesus.
Revelation 1:10  like a trumpet
Revelation 1:11 saying,  “Write what you see in a book and send it to the seven churches, to Ephesus and to Smyrna and to Pergamum and to Thyatira and to Sardis and to Philadelphia and to Laodicea.”
Revelation 1:12 Then I turned to see the voice that was speaking to me, and on turning I saw seven golden lampstands,
Revelation 1:13 and in the midst of the lampstands with a golden sash around his chest.
Revelation 1:14  His eyes were like a flame of fire,
Revelation 1:15  his voice was like the roar of many waters.
Revelation 1:16  in full strength.
Revelation 1:17  I am the first and the last,
Revelation 1:18 and the living one. I have the keys of Death and Hades.
Revelation 1:19  the things that you have seen, those that are and those that are to take place after this.
Revelation 1:20 As for the mystery of the seven stars that you saw in my right hand, and the seven lampstands are the seven churches.
Revelation 2:1 “To the angel of the church in Ephesus write: ‘The words of who walks among the seven golden lampstands.
Revelation 2:2  who call themselves apostles and are not, and found them to be false.
Revelation 2:3 I know you are enduring patiently and bearing up have not grown weary.
Revelation 2:4 But I have this against you, that you have abandoned the love you had at first.
Revelation 2:5 Remember therefore from where you have fallen; repent, and do I will come to you and remove your lampstand from its place, unless you repent.
Revelation 2:6 Yet this you have: you hate the works of the Nicolaitans, which I also hate.
Revelation 2:7  the paradise of God.’
Revelation 2:8 “And to the angel of the church in Smyrna write: ‘The words of who died and came to life.
Revelation 2:9 “‘I know your tribulation and those who say that they are Jews and are not, but are a synagogue of Satan.
Revelation 2:10 Do not fear what you are about to suffer. Behold, the devil is about to throw some of you into prison, the crown of life.
Revelation 2:11  the second death.’
Revelation 2:12 “And to the angel of the church in Pergamum write: ‘The words of him who has the sharp two-edged sword.
Revelation 2:13 “‘I know where you dwell, my faithful witness, who was killed among you, where Satan dwells.
Revelation 2:14 But I have a few things against you: you have some there who hold the teaching of practice sexual immorality.
Revelation 2:15 So also you have some who hold the teaching of the Nicolaitans.
Revelation 2:16 Therefore repent. If not, the sword of my mouth.
Revelation 2:17  that no one knows except the one who receives it.’
Revelation 2:18 “And to the angel of the church in Thyatira write: ‘The words of the Son of God, who has eyes like a flame of fire, and whose feet are like burnished bronze.
Revelation 2:19  “‘I know your works, your love and faith and service and patient endurance, and that your latter works exceed the first.
Revelation 2:20 But I have this against you, that you tolerate that woman to eat food sacrificed to idols.
Revelation 2:21 I gave her time to repent, but she refuses to repent of her sexual immorality.
Revelation 2:22 Behold, I will throw her onto a sickbed, and those who commit adultery with her I will throw into great tribulation, unless they repent of her works,
Revelation 2:23 and I will strike her children dead. And all the churches will know that I am he I will give to each of you according to your works.
Revelation 2:24 But to the rest of you in Thyatira, who do not hold this teaching, who have not learned what some call do not lay on you any other burden.
Revelation 2:25 Only hold fast what you have until I come.
Revelation 2:26  to him I will give authority over the nations,
Revelation 2:27 and as when earthen pots are broken in pieces, even as I myself have received authority from my Father.
Revelation 2:28 And I will give him the morning star.
Revelation 2:29  He who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches.’
Revelation 3:1 “And to the angel of the church in Sardis write: ‘The words of him but you are dead.
Revelation 3:2 Wake up, and strengthen what remains and is about to die, for I have not found your works complete in the sight of my God.
Revelation 3:3  like a thief, and you will not know at what hour I will come against you.
Revelation 3:4 Yet you have still a few names in Sardis, people who have not worthy.
Revelation 3:5  I will confess his name before my Father and before his angels.
Revelation 3:6  He who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches.’
Revelation 3:7 “And to the angel of the church in Philadelphia write: ‘The words of who opens and no one will shut, who shuts and no one opens.
Revelation 3:8 “‘I know your works. Behold, I have set before you an open door, which no one is able to shut. I know that you have but little power, and yet you have kept my word and have not denied my name.
Revelation 3:9 Behold, I will make those of I have loved you.
Revelation 3:10  those who dwell on the earth.
Revelation 3:11  your crown.
Revelation 3:12  new name.
Revelation 3:13  He who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches.’
Revelation 3:14 “And to the angel of the church in Laodicea write: ‘The words of the the beginning of God's creation.
Revelation 3:15 “‘I know your works: you are neither cold nor hot. Would that you were either cold or hot!
Revelation 3:16 So, because you are lukewarm, and neither hot nor cold, I will spit you out of my mouth.
Revelation 3:17  blind, and naked.
Revelation 3:18 I counsel you so that you may see.
Revelation 3:19  Those whom I love, I reprove and discipline, so be zealous and repent.
Revelation 3:20 Behold, I stand at the door and I will come in to him and eat with him, and he with me.
Revelation 3:21  I also conquered and sat down with my Father on his throne.
Revelation 3:22  He who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches.’”
Revelation 4:1 After this I looked, and behold, a door standing open in heaven! And the first voice, which I had heard speaking to me I will show you what must take place after this.”
Revelation 4:2 At once a throne stood in heaven, with one seated on the throne.
Revelation 4:3 And he who sat there had the appearance of a rainbow that had the appearance of an emerald.
Revelation 4:4 Around the throne were golden crowns on their heads.
Revelation 4:5 From the throne came which are the seven spirits of God,
Revelation 4:6 and before the throne there was full of eyes in front and behind:
Revelation 4:7  the first living creature like a lion, the second living creature like an ox, the third living creature with the face of a man, and the fourth living creature like an eagle in flight.
Revelation 4:8 And the four living creatures,who was and is and is to come!”
Revelation 4:9 And whenever the living creatures give glory and honor and thanks to him who is seated on the throne, who lives forever and ever,
Revelation 4:10 the twenty-four elders their crowns before the throne, saying,
Revelation 4:11  by your will they existed and were created.”
Revelation 5:1 Then I saw in the right hand of him who was seated on the throne sealed with seven seals.
Revelation 5:2 And I saw a mighty angel proclaiming with a loud voice, “Who is worthy to open the scroll and break its seals?”
Revelation 5:3 And no one in heaven or on earth or under the earth was able to open the scroll or to look into it,
Revelation 5:4 and I began to weep loudly because no one was found worthy to open the scroll or to look into it.
Revelation 5:5 And one of the elders said to me, “Weep no more; behold, the Root of David, has conquered, so that he can open the scroll and its seven seals.”
Revelation 5:6 And between the throne and the four living creatures and among the elders I saw the seven spirits of God sent out into all the earth.
Revelation 5:7 And he went and took the scroll from the right hand of him who was seated on the throne.
Revelation 5:8 And when he had taken the scroll, the four living creatures and the twenty-four elders which are the prayers of the saints.
Revelation 5:9 And they sang every tribe and language and people and nation,
Revelation 5:10 and you have made them a kingdom and priests to our God, and they shall reign on the earth.”
Revelation 5:11 Then I looked, and I heard around the throne and the living creatures and the elders the voice of many angels, numbering myriads of myriads and thousands of thousands,
Revelation 5:12 saying with a loud voice, “Worthy is the Lamb who was slain, to receive power and wealth and wisdom and might and honor and glory and blessing!”
Revelation 5:13 And I heard every creature in heaven and on earth and under the earth and in the sea, and all that is in them, saying, “To him who sits on the throne and to the Lamb be blessing and honor and glory and might forever and ever!”
Revelation 5:14 And the four living creatures fell down and worshiped.
Revelation 6:1 Now I watched when the Lamb opened one of “Come!”
Revelation 6:2 And I looked, and behold, conquering, and to conquer.
Revelation 6:3 When he opened the second seal, I heard the second living creature say, “Come!”
Revelation 6:4 And out came another horse, to take peace from the earth, so that people should slay one another, and he was given a great sword.
Revelation 6:5 When he opened the third seal, I heard the a black horse! And its rider had a pair of scales in his hand.
Revelation 6:6 And I heard what seemed to be a voice in the midst of the four living creatures, saying, do not harm the oil and wine!”
Revelation 6:7 When he opened the fourth seal, I heard the voice of the fourth living creature say, “Come!”
Revelation 6:8 And I looked, and behold, by wild beasts of the earth.
Revelation 6:9 When he opened the fifth seal, I saw under the witness they had borne.
Revelation 6:10 They cried out with a loud voice, “O Sovereign Lord, those who dwell on the earth?”
Revelation 6:11 Then they were each given should be complete, who were to be killed as they themselves had been.
Revelation 6:12 When he opened the sixth seal, I looked, and behold, sackcloth, the full moon became like blood,
Revelation 6:13 and as the fig tree sheds its winter fruit when shaken by a gale.
Revelation 6:14  every mountain and island was removed from its place.
Revelation 6:15 Then the kings of the earth and the great ones and the generals and the rich and the powerful, and everyone, slave hid themselves in the caves and among the rocks of the mountains,
Revelation 6:16  him who is seated on the throne, and from the wrath of the Lamb,
Revelation 6:17 for who can stand?”
Revelation 7:1 After this I saw four angels standing at the four corners of the earth, holding back that no wind might blow on earth or sea or against any tree.
Revelation 7:2 Then I saw another angel ascending the seal of the living God, and he called with a loud voice to the four angels who had been given power to harm earth and sea,
Revelation 7:3 saying, on their foreheads.”
Revelation 7:4 And I heard the number of the sealed, 144,000, sealed from every tribe of the sons of Israel:
Revelation 7:5 12,000 from the tribe of Judah were sealed, 12,000 from the tribe of Reuben, 12,000 from the tribe of Gad,
Revelation 7:6 12,000 from the tribe of Asher, 12,000 from the tribe of Naphtali, 12,000 from the tribe of Manasseh,
Revelation 7:7 12,000 from the tribe of Simeon, 12,000 from the tribe of Levi, 12,000 from the tribe of Issachar,
Revelation 7:8 12,000 from the tribe of Zebulun, 12,000 from the tribe of Joseph, 12,000 from the tribe of Benjamin were sealed.
Revelation 7:9 After this I looked, and behold, palm branches in their hands,
Revelation 7:10 and crying out with a loud voice, “Salvation belongs to our God who sits on the throne, and to the Lamb!”
Revelation 7:11 And all the angels were standing around the throne and around the elders and fell on their faces before the throne and worshiped God,
Revelation 7:12  saying, “Amen! Blessing and glory and wisdom and thanksgiving and honor and power and might be to our God forever and ever! Amen.”
Revelation 7:13 Then one of the elders addressed me, saying, “Who are these, clothed in white robes, and from where have they come?”
Revelation 7:14 I said to him, “Sir, you know.” And he said to me, “These are the ones coming out of in the blood of the Lamb.
Revelation 7:15 “Therefore they are before the throne of God, and will shelter them with his presence.
Revelation 7:16 the sun shall not strike them, nor any scorching heat.
Revelation 7:17 For the Lamb in the midst of the throne God will wipe away every tear from their eyes.”
Revelation 8:1 When the Lamb opened the seventh seal, there was silence in heaven for about half an hour.
Revelation 8:2 Then I saw the seven angels who stand before God, and seven trumpets were given to them.
Revelation 8:3 And another angel came and stood the golden altar before the throne,
Revelation 8:4 and the smoke of the incense, with the prayers of the saints, rose before God from the hand of the angel.
Revelation 8:5 Then the angel took the censer and  flashes of lightning, and an earthquake.
Revelation 8:6 Now the seven angels who had the seven trumpets prepared to blow them.
Revelation 8:7 The first angel blew his trumpet, and there followed the trees were burned up, and all green grass was burned up.
Revelation 8:8 The second angel blew his trumpet, and something like became blood.
Revelation 8:9 A third of the living creatures in the sea died, and a third of the ships were destroyed.
Revelation 8:10 The third angel blew his trumpet, and the springs of water.
Revelation 8:11 The name of the star is Wormwood. because it had been made bitter.
Revelation 8:12 The fourth angel blew his trumpet, and a third of the sun was struck, and a third of the moon, and a third of the stars, so that a third of their light might be darkened, and a third of the day might be kept from shining, and likewise a third of the night.
Revelation 8:13 Then I looked, and I heard an eagle crying with a loud voice as it flew directly overhead, “Woe, woe, woe to those who dwell on the earth, at the blasts of the other trumpets that the three angels are about to blow!”
Revelation 9:1 And the fifth angel blew his trumpet, and
Revelation 9:2 He opened the shaft of the bottomless pit, and from the shaft the sun and the air were darkened with the smoke from the shaft.
Revelation 9:3 Then from the smoke came locusts on the earth, and they were given power like the power of scorpions of the earth.
Revelation 9:4 They were told the seal of God on their foreheads.
Revelation 9:5 They were allowed to torment them for five months, but not to kill them, and their torment was like the torment of a scorpion when it stings someone.
Revelation 9:6 And in those days people will seek death and will not find it. They will long to die, but death will flee from them.
Revelation 9:7  like human faces,
Revelation 9:8 their hair like women's hair, and their teeth like lions' teeth;
Revelation 9:9 they had breastplates like breastplates of iron, and the noise of their wings was horses rushing into battle.
Revelation 9:10 They have tails and stings like scorpions, and their power to hurt people for five months is in their tails.
Revelation 9:11 They have
Revelation 9:12  The first woe has passed; behold, two woes are still to come.
Revelation 9:13 Then the sixth angel blew his trumpet, and I heard a voice from the four horns of the golden altar before God,
Revelation 9:14 saying to the sixth angel who had the trumpet, “Release the great river Euphrates.”
Revelation 9:15 So the four angels, who had been prepared for the hour, the day, the month, and the year, were released to kill a third of mankind.
Revelation 9:16 The number of I heard their number.
Revelation 9:17 And this is how I saw the horses in my vision and those who rode them: they wore breastplates the color of fire and of sapphire like lions' heads, and fire and smoke and sulfur came out of their mouths.
Revelation 9:18 By these three plagues a third of mankind was killed, by the fire and smoke and sulfur coming out of their mouths.
Revelation 9:19 For the power of the horses is in their mouths and in their tails, for their tails are like serpents with heads, and by means of them they wound.
Revelation 9:20 The rest of mankind, who were not killed by these plagues, and idols of gold and silver and bronze and stone and wood, which cannot see or hear or walk,
Revelation 9:21 nor did they repent of their murders or their sorceries or their sexual immorality or their thefts.
Revelation 10:1 Then I saw another mighty angel coming down from heaven, wrapped in a cloud, with his legs like pillars of fire.
Revelation 10:2  He had a little scroll open in his hand. And he set his right foot on the sea, and his left foot on the land,
Revelation 10:3 and called out with a loud voice, like a lion roaring. When he called out, the seven thunders sounded.
Revelation 10:4 And when the seven thunders had sounded, I was about to write, but I heard a voice from heaven saying, “Seal up what the seven thunders have said, and do not write it down.”
Revelation 10:5 And the angel whom I saw standing on the sea and on the land raised his right hand to heaven
Revelation 10:6 and swore by who created heaven and what is in it, the earth and what is in it, and the sea and what is in it, that there would be no more delay,
Revelation 10:7 but that just as he announced to his servants the prophets.
Revelation 10:8 Then the voice that I had heard from heaven spoke to me again, saying, “Go, take the scroll that is open in the hand of the angel who is standing on the sea and on the land.”
Revelation 10:9 So I went to the angel and told him to give me the little scroll. And he said to me, eat it; it will make your stomach bitter, but in your mouth it will be sweet as honey.”
Revelation 10:10 And I took the little scroll from the hand of the angel and ate it. It was sweet as honey in my mouth, but when I had eaten it my stomach was made bitter.
Revelation 10:11 And I was told, “You must again prophesy about many peoples and nations and languages and kings.”
Revelation 11:1 Then I was given a measuring rod like a staff, and I was told, “Rise and measure the temple of God and the altar and those who worship there,
Revelation 11:2 but do not measure forty-two months.
Revelation 11:3 And I will grant authority to my two witnesses, and they will prophesy for clothed in sackcloth.”
Revelation 11:4 These are the two olive trees and the two lampstands that stand before the Lord of the earth.
Revelation 11:5 And if anyone would harm them, this is how he is doomed to be killed.
Revelation 11:6 They have the power to strike the earth with every kind of plague, as often as they desire.
Revelation 11:7 And when they have finished their testimony, will make war on them and conquer them and kill them,
Revelation 11:8 and their dead bodies will lie in the street of the great city that symbolically Egypt, where their Lord was crucified.
Revelation 11:9 For three and a half days some from the peoples and tribes and languages and nations will gaze at their dead bodies and refuse to let them be placed in a tomb,
Revelation 11:10 and had been a torment to those who dwell on the earth.
Revelation 11:11 But after the three and a half days a breath of life from God entered them, and they stood up on their feet, and great fear fell on those who saw them.
Revelation 11:12 Then they heard a loud voice from heaven saying to them, in a cloud, and their enemies watched them.
Revelation 11:13 And at that hour there was the God of heaven.
Revelation 11:14  The second woe has passed; behold, the third woe is soon to come.
Revelation 11:15 Then he shall reign forever and ever.”
Revelation 11:16 And the twenty-four elders fell on their faces and worshiped God,
Revelation 11:17 saying, “We give thanks to you, Lord God Almighty,  begun to reign.
Revelation 11:18 The nations raged, but for destroying the destroyers of the earth.”
Revelation 11:19 Then heavy hail.
Revelation 12:1 And a great sign appeared in heaven: a woman the moon under her feet, and on her head a crown of twelve stars.
Revelation 12:2 She was pregnant and was crying out in birth pains and the agony of giving birth.
Revelation 12:3 And another sign appeared in heaven: behold, a great seven diadems.
Revelation 12:4 His tail swept down he might devour it.
Revelation 12:5 She gave birth to a male child, caught up to God and to his throne,
Revelation 12:6 and the woman fled into the wilderness, where she has a place prepared by God, in which she is to be nourished for 1,260 days.
Revelation 12:7 Now war arose in heaven, his angels fighting against the dragon. And the dragon and his angels fought back,
Revelation 12:8 but he was defeated, and there was no longer any place for them in heaven.
Revelation 12:9 And he was thrown down to the earth, and his angels were thrown down with him.
Revelation 12:10 And I heard a loud voice in heaven, saying, “Now who accuses them day and night before our God.
Revelation 12:11 And even unto death.
Revelation 12:12 Therefore, he knows that his time is short!”
Revelation 12:13 And when the dragon saw that he had been thrown down to the earth, he pursued the woman who had given birth to the male child.
Revelation 12:14 But the woman was given the two for a time, and times, and half a time.
Revelation 12:15 The serpent poured water like a river out of his mouth after the woman, to sweep her away with a flood.
Revelation 12:16 But the earth came to the help of the woman, and the earth opened its mouth and swallowed the river that the dragon had poured from his mouth.
Revelation 12:17 Then the dragon became furious with the woman and went off  on the sand of the sea.
Revelation 13:1 And I saw a beast rising out of the sea, blasphemous names on its heads.
Revelation 13:2 And the beast that I saw was his throne and great authority.
Revelation 13:3 One of its heads seemed to have a mortal wound, but its mortal wound was healed, and the whole earth marveled as they followed the beast.
Revelation 13:4 And they worshiped the dragon, for he had given his authority to the beast, and they worshiped the beast, saying, “Who is like the beast, and who can fight against it?”
Revelation 13:5 And the beast was given forty-two months.
Revelation 13:6 It opened its mouth to utter blasphemies against God, blaspheming his name and his dwelling,  that is, those who dwell in heaven.
Revelation 13:7 Also it was allowed  And authority was given it over every tribe and people and language and nation,
Revelation 13:8 and all who was slain.
Revelation 13:9  If anyone has an ear, let him hear:
Revelation 13:10 Here is a call for the endurance and faith of the saints.
Revelation 13:11 Then I saw another beast rising out of the earth. It had two horns like a lamb and it spoke like a dragon.
Revelation 13:12 It exercises all the authority of the first beast in its presence, whose mortal wound was healed.
Revelation 13:13  making fire come down from heaven to earth in front of people,
Revelation 13:14 and by the signs that it is allowed to work in the presence of that was wounded by the sword and yet lived.
Revelation 13:15 And it was allowed to give breath to the image of the beast, so that the image of the beast might even speak and might cause those who would not to be slain.
Revelation 13:16 Also it causes all, both small and great, both rich and poor, both free and slave, to be marked on the right hand or the forehead,
Revelation 13:17 so that no one can buy or sell unless he has the mark, that is, the number of its name.
Revelation 13:18
Revelation 14:1 Then I looked, and behold, on on their foreheads.
Revelation 14:2 And I heard a voice from heaven harpists playing on their harps,
Revelation 14:3 and they were singing No one could learn that song except the 144,000 who had been redeemed from the earth.
Revelation 14:4 It is these who have not defiled themselves with women, for firstfruits for God and the Lamb,
Revelation 14:5 and blameless.
Revelation 14:6 Then I saw another angel those who dwell on earth, to every nation and tribe and language and people.
Revelation 14:7 And he said with a loud voice, springs of water.”
Revelation 14:8 Another angel, a second, followed, saying,  of her sexual immorality.”
Revelation 14:9 And another angel, a third, followed them, saying with a loud voice, “If anyone a mark on his forehead or on his hand,
Revelation 14:10 he also will drink he will be tormented with fire and sulfur in the presence of the holy angels and in the presence of the Lamb.
Revelation 14:11 And worshipers of the beast and its image, and whoever receives the mark of its name.”
Revelation 14:12
Revelation 14:13 And I heard a voice from heaven saying, “Write this: “that they may rest from their labors, for their deeds follow them!”
Revelation 14:14 Then I looked, and behold, a white cloud, and seated on the cloud one with a golden crown on his head, and a sharp sickle in his hand.
Revelation 14:15 And another angel the harvest of the earth is fully ripe.”
Revelation 14:16 So he who sat on the cloud swung his sickle across the earth, and the earth was reaped.
Revelation 14:17 Then another angel came out of the temple in heaven, and he too had a sharp sickle.
Revelation 14:18 And another angel came out from the altar, for its grapes are ripe.”
Revelation 14:19 So the angel swung his sickle across the earth and gathered the grape harvest of the earth and threw it into the great winepress of the wrath of God.
Revelation 14:20 And
Revelation 15:1 Then seven angels with seven plagues, which are the last, for with them the wrath of God is finished.
Revelation 15:2 And I saw with harps of God in their hands.
Revelation 15:3 And they sing
Revelation 15:4 All nations will come and worship you, for your righteous acts have been revealed.”
Revelation 15:5 After this I looked, and  of witness in heaven was opened,
Revelation 15:6 and out of the sanctuary came with golden sashes around their chests.
Revelation 15:7 And one of who lives forever and ever,
Revelation 15:8 and no one could enter the sanctuary until the seven plagues of the seven angels were finished.
Revelation 16:1 Then I heard a loud voice from the temple telling the seven bowls of the wrath of God.”
Revelation 16:2 So the first angel went and poured out his bowl on the earth, and harmful and painful the mark of the beast and worshiped its image.
Revelation 16:3 The second angel poured out his bowl into the sea, and every living thing died that was in the sea.
Revelation 16:4 The third angel poured out his bowl into they became blood.
Revelation 16:5 And I heard the angel in charge of the waters who is and who was, for you brought these judgments.
Revelation 16:6 For you have given them blood to drink. It is what they deserve!”
Revelation 16:7 And I heardtrue and just are your judgments!”
Revelation 16:8 The fourth angel poured out his bowl on the sun, and it was allowed to scorch people with fire.
Revelation 16:9 They were scorched by the fierce heat, and and give him glory.
Revelation 16:10 The fifth angel poured out his bowl on its kingdom was plunged into darkness. People gnawed their tongues in anguish
Revelation 16:11 and cursed They did not repent of their deeds.
Revelation 16:12 The sixth angel poured out his bowl on from the east.
Revelation 16:13 And I saw, coming out of the mouth of frogs.
Revelation 16:14 For they are the great day of God the Almighty.
Revelation 16:15 (“Behold, that he may not go about naked and be seen exposed!”)
Revelation 16:16 And Armageddon.
Revelation 16:17 The seventh angel poured out his bowl into “It is done!”
Revelation 16:18 And there were such as there had never been since man was on the earth, so great was that earthquake.
Revelation 16:19  to make her drain the cup of the wine of the fury of his wrath.
Revelation 16:20 And every island fled away, and no mountains were to be found.
Revelation 16:21 And the plague of the hail, because the plague was so severe.
Revelation 17:1 Then who is seated on many waters,
Revelation 17:2  the dwellers on earth have become drunk.”
Revelation 17:3 And it had seven heads and ten horns.
Revelation 17:4 The woman a golden cup full of abominations and the impurities of her sexual immorality.
Revelation 17:5 And on her forehead was written a name of “Babylon the great, mother of prostitutes and of earth's abominations.”
Revelation 17:6 And I saw the woman, drunk  When I saw her, I marveled greatly.
Revelation 17:7 But the angel said to me, “Why do you marvel? I will tell you the mystery of the woman, and of the beast with seven heads and ten horns that carries her.
Revelation 17:8 The beast that you saw it was and is not and is to come.
Revelation 17:9  This calls for a mind with wisdom: the seven heads are seven mountains on which the woman is seated;
Revelation 17:10 they are also seven kings, five of whom have fallen, one is, the other has not yet come, and when he does come he must remain only a little while.
Revelation 17:11 As for the beast that was and is not, it is an eighth but it belongs to the seven, and it goes to destruction.
Revelation 17:12 And for one hour, together with the beast.
Revelation 17:13 These are of one mind, and they hand over their power and authority to the beast.
Revelation 17:14 They called and chosen and faithful.”
Revelation 17:15 And the angel “The waters that you saw, where the prostitute is seated, are peoples and multitudes and nations and languages.
Revelation 17:16 And burn her up with fire,
Revelation 17:17 for handing over their royal power to the beast, until the words of God are fulfilled.
Revelation 17:18 And the woman that you saw is the great city that has dominion over the kings of the earth.”
Revelation 18:1 After this I saw the earth was made bright with his glory.
Revelation 18:2 And he called out with a mighty voice,  for every unclean bird, a haunt for every unclean and detestable beast.
Revelation 18:3 For all nations have drunk the merchants of the earth have grown rich from the power of her luxurious living.”
Revelation 18:4 Then I heard another voice from heaven saying, “Come out of her, my people, lest you take part in her sins, lest you share in her plagues;
Revelation 18:5 for God has remembered her iniquities.
Revelation 18:6  in the cup she mixed.
Revelation 18:7 ‘I sit as a queen, I am no widow, and mourning I shall never see.’
Revelation 18:8 For this reason her plagues will come mighty is the Lord God who has judged her.”
Revelation 18:9 And when they see the smoke of her burning.
Revelation 18:10  in a single hour your judgment has come.”
Revelation 18:11 And the merchants of the earth weep and mourn for her, since no one buys their cargo anymore,
Revelation 18:12 cargo of gold, silver, jewels, pearls, fine linen, purple cloth, silk, scarlet cloth, all kinds of scented wood, all kinds of articles of ivory, all kinds of articles of costly wood, bronze, iron and marble,
Revelation 18:13 cinnamon, spice, incense, myrrh, frankincense, wine, oil, fine flour, wheat, cattle and sheep, horses and chariots, and slaves, that is, human souls.
Revelation 18:14 “The fruit for which your soul longed has gone from you, and all your delicacies and your splendors are lost to you, never to be found again!”
Revelation 18:15  will stand far off, in fear of her torment, weeping and mourning aloud,
Revelation 18:16 “Alas, alas, for the great city that was clothed in fine linen, in purple and scarlet, adorned with gold, with jewels, and with pearls!
Revelation 18:17 For all shipmasters and seafaring men, sailors and all whose trade is on the sea, stood far off
Revelation 18:18 and“What city was like the great city?”
Revelation 18:19 And they threw in a single hour she has been laid waste.
Revelation 18:20  God has given judgment for you against her!”
Revelation 18:21 Then the great city be thrown down with violence, and will be found no more;
Revelation 18:22 and the sound of the mill will be heard in you no more,
Revelation 18:23 and the light of a lamp will shine in you no more, and by your sorcery.
Revelation 18:24 And all who have been slain on earth.”
Revelation 19:1 After this I heardSalvation and glory and power belong to our God,
Revelation 19:2 for has avenged on her the blood of his servants.”
Revelation 19:3 Once more they cried out, “Hallelujah! The smoke from her goes up forever and ever.”
Revelation 19:4 And the twenty-four elders and the four living creatures fell down and worshiped God who was seated on the throne, saying, “Amen. Hallelujah!”
Revelation 19:5 And from the throne came a voice saying, you who fear him, small and great.”
Revelation 19:6 Then I heard what seemed to be reigns.
Revelation 19:7 Let us rejoice and exult and give him the glory, for his Bride has made herself ready;
Revelation 19:8  the righteous deeds of the saints.
Revelation 19:9 And the angel said “These are the true words of God.”
Revelation 19:10 Then the testimony of Jesus. Worship God.” For the testimony of Jesus is the spirit of prophecy.
Revelation 19:11 Then I saw in righteousness he judges and makes war.
Revelation 19:12  a name written that no one knows but himself.
Revelation 19:13 He is clothed in The Word of God.
Revelation 19:14 And the armies of heaven, were following him on white horses.
Revelation 19:15  He will tread the winepress of the fury of the wrath of God the Almighty.
Revelation 19:16 On his robe and on his thigh King of kings and Lord of lords.
Revelation 19:17 Then I saw an angel standing in the sun, and with a loud voice he called to the great supper of God,
Revelation 19:18   both small and great.”
Revelation 19:19 And I saw gathered to make war against him who was sitting on the horse and against his army.
Revelation 19:20 And the beast was captured, and with it fire that burns with sulfur.
Revelation 19:21 And the rest were slain by the sword all the birds were gorged with their flesh.
Revelation 20:1 Then I saw an angel coming down from heaven,  and a great chain.
Revelation 20:2 And he seized bound him for a thousand years,
Revelation 20:3 and threw him into he might not deceive the nations any longer, until the thousand years were ended. After that he must be released for a little while.
Revelation 20:4 Then I saw reigned with Christ for a thousand years.
Revelation 20:5 The rest of the dead did not come to life until the thousand years were ended. This is the first resurrection.
Revelation 20:6  will reign with him for a thousand years.
Revelation 20:7 And when the thousand years are ended, Satan will be released from his prison
Revelation 20:8 and will come out to gather them for battle; their number is like the sand of the sea.
Revelation 20:9 And  and consumed them,
Revelation 20:10 and the devil the beast and the false prophet were, and they will be tormented day and night forever and ever.
Revelation 20:11 Then I saw a great white throne and him who was seated on it. From his presence no place was found for them.
Revelation 20:12 And I saw the dead, great and small, standing before the throne, and according to what they had done.
Revelation 20:13 And the sea gave up the dead who were in it, according to what they had done.
Revelation 20:14 Then the second death, the lake of fire.
Revelation 20:15 And if anyone's name was not found written in the book of life, he was thrown into the lake of fire.
Revelation 21:1 Then I saw the first heaven and the first earth had passed away, and the sea was no more.
Revelation 21:2 And I saw as a bride adorned for her husband.
Revelation 21:3 And I heard a loud voice from the throne saying, “Behold,
Revelation 21:4  neither shall there be mourning, nor crying, nor pain anymore, for the former things have passed away.”
Revelation 21:5 And these words are trustworthy and true.”
Revelation 21:6 And he said to me, To the thirsty I will give from the spring of the water of life without payment.
Revelation 21:7  he will be my son.
Revelation 21:8  the second death.”
Revelation 21:9 Then came the Bride, the wife of the Lamb.”
Revelation 21:10 And a great, high mountain, and showed me the holy city Jerusalem coming down out of heaven from God,
Revelation 21:11  like a most rare jewel, like a jasper, clear as crystal.
Revelation 21:12 It had a great, high wall, with twelve gates, and at the gates twelve angels, and on the gates the names of the twelve tribes of the sons of Israel were inscribed —
Revelation 21:13 on the east three gates, on the north three gates, on the south three gates, and on the west three gates.
Revelation 21:14 And the wall of the city had twelve on them were the twelve names of the twelve apostles of the Lamb.
Revelation 21:15 And the one who spoke with me had a measuring rod of gold to measure the city and its gates and walls.
Revelation 21:16 The city lies foursquare, its length the same as its width. And he measured the city with his rod, 12,000 stadia.  Its length and width and height are equal.
Revelation 21:17 He also measured its wall, 144 cubits an angel's measurement.
Revelation 21:18 The wall was built of clear glass.
Revelation 21:19  The foundations of the wall of the city were adorned with every kind of jewel. The first was jasper, the second sapphire, the third agate, the fourth emerald,
Revelation 21:20 the fifth onyx, the sixth carnelian, the seventh chrysolite, the eighth beryl, the ninth topaz, the tenth chrysoprase, the eleventh jacinth, the twelfth amethyst.
Revelation 21:21 And the twelve gates were twelve pearls, each of the gates made of a single pearl, and the street of the city was pure gold, like transparent glass.
Revelation 21:22 And I saw no temple in the city, for its temple is the Lord God the Almighty and the Lamb.
Revelation 21:23 And the city the glory of God gives it light, and its lamp is the Lamb.
Revelation 21:24 By its light will bring their glory into it,
Revelation 21:25 and there will be no night there.
Revelation 21:26 They will bring into it the glory and the honor of the nations.
Revelation 21:27 But book of life.
Revelation 22:1 Then the angel the water of life, bright as crystal, flowing from the throne of God and of the Lamb
Revelation 22:2 through the middle of for the healing of the nations.
Revelation 22:3  his servants will worship him.
Revelation 22:4  his name will be on their foreheads.
Revelation 22:5 And they will reign forever and ever.
Revelation 22:6 And he said to me, has sent his angel to show his servants what must soon take place.”
Revelation 22:7 “And behold, Blessed is the one who keeps the words of the prophecy of this book.”
Revelation 22:8 I, I fell down to worship at the feet of the angel who showed them to me,
Revelation 22:9  who keep the words of this book. Worship God.”
Revelation 22:10 And he said to me, “Do not seal up the words of the prophecy of this book, for the time is near.
Revelation 22:11  Let the evildoer still do evil, and the filthy still be filthy, and the righteous still do right, and the holy still be holy.”
Revelation 22:12 “Behold, to repay each one for what he has done.
Revelation 22:13  the beginning and the end.”
Revelation 22:14 Blessed are those who they may enter the city by the gates.
Revelation 22:15  and sorcerers and the sexually immoral and murderers and idolaters, and everyone who loves and practices falsehood.
Revelation 22:16  the bright morning star.”
Revelation 22:17 The Spirit and water of life without price.
Revelation 22:18 I warn everyone who hears the words of the prophecy of this book: if anyone adds to them, God will add to him the plagues described in this book,
Revelation 22:19 and if anyone takes away from the words of the book of this prophecy, God will take away his share in the holy city, which are described in this book.
Revelation 22:20 He who testifies to these things says, “Surely Come, Lord Jesus!
Revelation 22:21 The grace of the Lord Jesus be with all.  Amen.
